--- Page 0 ---
NICOLE LURIE, M.D., M.S.P.H. Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response RADM, U.S. Public Health Service U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Dr. Lurie is the Assistant Secretar y for Preparedness and Response (ASPR) at the U .S. Departmen t of Health and Human Services (HHS). As such, she serves as the Secretary's principal advisor on matters related to bioterrorism and other public health emergencies. Her office is the lead agency for federal public health and medical preparedness and response, helping the nation prepare for, respond to, and recover from disasters. Prior to her current position, she served as Senior Natural Scientist and Paul O’ Neill Alcoa Professor of Health Policy at the RAND Corporation. There she directed RAND’s public health and preparedness work as well as RAND’s Center for Population Health and Health Disparities. She has previously served in federal government, as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Health in the HHS ; in state government as Medical Advisor to the Commissioner at the Minnesota Department of Health; and in academia, as Professor in the University of Minnesota Schools of Medicine and Public Health. Dr. Lurie has a long history in the health services research field, primarily in the areas of access to and quality of care, managed care, mental health, prevention, public health infrastructure and preparedness and health disparities. Dr. Lurie attended college and medical school at the University of Pennsylvania, and completed her residency and MSPH at UCLA, where she was also a Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Clinical Scholar. She served as Senior Editor for Health Services Research and has served on editorial boards and as a reviewer for numerous journals. She has served on the council and was Pres ident of the Society of General Internal Medicine, and on the board of directors for Academy Health , and has served on multiple other national committees. She is the recipient of numerous awards, including the AHSR Young Investigator Award, the Nellie Wes terman Prize for Research in Ethics, the Heroine in Health Care Award, the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine’s Distinguished Alumni Award, and is a member of the Institute of Medicine. Dr. Lurie continues to practice clinical medicine in the he alth care safety net in Washington, DC.