--- Page 0 ---
Bedford Village Elementary School 03/26/2003 660102060001 New York State Education Department School Accountability - Percen tage of Students Tested District Bedford Centra l School District 660102 School Bedford Village Elementary School BEDS Code: 660102060001 Number of Students Tested in 2001-02 No Child Left Behind (NCLB) requires schools to test 95 percent of all students enrolled on the day of test administration. Beginning with the tests administered in the 2002-03 school year, districts and schools must meet this requirement to make adequa te yearly progress (AYP) in a subjec t and grade. The table below shows the number of students tested in this school by subject and grade in the 2001-02 school year. These data are for information purposes only, not for determining AYP. While this table summarizes data for all enrolled students, NCLB requires 95 percent participation for each accountability group with at least 40 students. The accountability groups are: all students, students fr om major racial and ethnic groups, stud ents with disabilities, students with limited English proficiency and economic ally disadvantaged students. Second ary schools are accountable for the performance of 100 percent of cohort members. Ther efore, the cohort performance indices for English and mathematics will satisfy NCLB requi rements and no separate participation measure is required. Number Tested on Each Assessment Enrollment General Assessment Alternate Assessment Locally Selected Alternative / LEP Not Tested Elementary-Level ELA 63 61 1 0 0 1 Elementary-Level Mathematics 63 61 1 0 0 1 Middle-Level ELA N/A Middle-Level Mathematics N/A Definitions: ELA: English Language Arts Enrollment: Number of students enrolled in the building at the time of test administration. Assessments that satisfy participation requirement: General Assessment: Count of students administered the general assessments: elementary-level ELA, elementary-level mathematics, middle-level ELA, or middle-level mathematics. Alternate Assessment: Count of students administered the New York State Alternate Assessment for severely disabled students. Locally Selected: Count of eligible students with disabilities administered a locally selected assessment (counted as Level 1) based on the March 2002 memo from James Kadamus and Lawrence Gloeckler. Alternative/LEP: Count of limited English proficient students not requir ed to take the ELA assessment because of insufficient proficiency in English. Their progress in learning English was measured using an appropriate English reading assessment. Beginning in 2002-03, all LEP students in grades 4 and 8 are requir ed to take the ELA assessment or the New York State English as a Second Language Achievement Test (as appropriate) and the mathematics assessment. Any LEP student in grade 4 or 8 without a valid score on a required assessment will be counted as "not tested." Not Tested: Count of students not tested or not receiving a valid score (bec ause of a test administration error, student did not complete sufficient test items, or student refusal).