--- Page 0 ---
immdatamw v& *r?v unw- C-dwdP- PUBLIC copy U.S. Department of Homeland Security 20 Mass Ave., N.W., Rm. 3000 Washington, DC 20529 U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services FILE: Office: CALIFORNIA SERVICE CENTER [SRC 01 191 644271 IN RE: Applicant: APPLICATION: Application for Temporary Protected Status under Section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. fj 1254 ON BEHALF OF APPLICANT: SELF-REPRESENTED INSTRUCTIONS: This is the decision of the Administrative Appeals Office in your case. All documents have been returned to the office that originally decided your case. Any further inquiry must be made to that office. obert P. Wiemann, Chief Appeals Office

--- Page 1 ---
DISCUSSION: The initial application was denied by the Director, California Service Center. A subsequent application for re-registration was denied by the Director, California Service Center, and is currently before the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO) on appeal. The initial application will be reopened, sua sponte, by the Chief, Administrative Appeals Office, and the case will be remanded for further consideration and action. The applicant is a citizen of El Salvador who is seeking Temporary Protected Status (TPS) under section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act), 8 U.S.C. 5 1254. e The applicant filed an initial application for TPS under receipt number SRC 01 191 64427. The director denied the initial application as abandoned on July 16,2004, after determining that the applicant had failed to appear for fingerprinting. However, the record of proceedings reveals that the director's decision was in error. Specifically, the record reveals that the applicant was fingerprinted on September 15,200 1 and again on March 25,2005. The director's denial of the initial application will be withdrawn; the application will be remanded for a new decision. The director's denial of the application for re-registration or renewal is dependent upon the adjudication of the initial application. Since the initial application is being remanded, that decision will be remanded to the director for further adjudication. The director may request any evidence deemed necessary to assist with the determination of the applicant's eligibility for TPS offered to Salvadorans. As always in these proceedings, the burden of proof rests solely with the applicant. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1361. ORDER: The initial application is reopened, the director's decision is withdrawn, and the application is remanded for a new decision. The re-registration application is remanded for further action consistent with the director's new decision on the initial application.