--- Page 0 ---
738 47 CFR Ch. II (10–1–05 Edition) § 214.3 § 214.3 Assumptions. When the provisions of this part be- come operative, Presidential emer-gency authority, including Executive Order 12656, 12472, 12046 (3 CFR, 1966– 1970 Comp., p. 820), and other emer-gency plans regarding the allocation and use of national resources will be in effect. During an attack, and in a postattack period, the Director, OSTP, will have authority to make new or re-vised assignments of radio frequencies in accordance with authority delegated by the President. § 214.4 Planned actions. (a) Whenever it is determined nec- essary to exercise, in whole or in part, the President’s emergency authority over telecommunications, the Director, OSTP, will exercise that authority as specified in Executive Order 12472 (49 FR 13471; 3 CFR, 1984 Comp., p. 193). (b) In this connection, and concur- rently with the war or national emer-gency proclamation by the President, the Director will: (1) Authorize the continuance of all frequency authorizations issued by the National Telecommunications and In-formation Administration (NTIA) and the Federal Communications Commis-sion (FCC), except as they may other-wise be modified or revoked by the Di-rector, OSTP, in the national interest; (2) Redelegate to the Secretary of De- fense the authority necessary to con-trol the use of the radio spectrum in areas of active combat, where such control is necessary to the support of U.S. military operations; (3) Close all non-government radio stations in the international broad-casting service as defined in the FCC rules and regulations, except those car-rying or scheduled to carry U.S. Gov-ernment-controlled radio broadcasts. § 214.5 Responsibilities. (a) The Director, OSTP, will issue such policy guidance, rules, regula-tions, procedures, and directives as may be necessary to assure effective frequency usage during wartime emer-gency conditions. (b) The FCC, in coordination with NTIA, shall issue appropriate rules, regulations, orders, and instructions and take such other actions not incon-sistent with the actions of the Direc- tor, OSTP, and the NTIA Emergency Readiness Plan for Use of the Radio Spectrum as may be necessary to en-sure the effective use of those portions of the radio spectrum shared by Gov-ernment and non-governments users. (c) The FCC shall assist the Director in the preparation of emergency plans pursuant to section 3(h)(3) of Executive Order 12472. (d) Each Federal Government agency concerned shall develop and be pre-pared to implement its own plans, and shall make necessary preemergency ar-rangements with non-government enti-ties for the provision of desired facili-ties or services, all subject to the guid-ance and control of the Director. § 214.6 Postattack procedures and ac- tions. (a) The frequency management staff supporting the Director, OSTP, com-prised of predesignated personnel from the frequency management staffs of the government user agencies, NTIA and the FCC, will have proceeded to the OSTP relocation site in accordance with alerting orders in force. (b) Government agencies having need for new radio frequency assignments or for modification of existing assign-ments involving a change in the fre-quency usage pattern shall, unless oth-erwise provided, submit applications therefor to the Director, OSTP, by whatever means of communication are available and appropriate, together with a statement of any preapplication coordination accomplished. The Direc-tor, OSTP, will review such applica-tions accomplish the necessary addi-tional coordination insofar as prac-ticable, consider all pertinent views and comments, and grant or deny, as he shall determine, the assignment of such frequencies. All concerned will be informed promptly of his decisions. (c) Non-Government entities having need for new radio frequency assign-ments or for modifications of existing assignments will continue to submit applications therefor to the FCC, or in accordance with FCC instructions. Such applications shall be coordinated with the Director, OSTP, and granted subject to the approval of the Director, OSTP, or his delegate. VerDate Aug<31>2005 13:23 Nov 08, 2005 Jkt 205199 PO 00000 Frm 00748 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\205199.XXX 205199