--- Page 0 ---
JOURNAL OF THE 1002JUNE 4 T65.9 category of the discretionary spending limits for fiscal year 1993 (as defined in section 601(a)(2) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974) for purposes of part C of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985. (d) R EPORTING REQUIREMENTS .Ð(1) Not less than 15 days before any obligation of funds under this section, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of En- ergy, shall transmit to the committees of Congress named in subsection (e) a report on the proposed obligation. Each such report shall specifyÐ (A) the account, budget activity, and par- ticular program from which the funds pro- posed to be obligated are to be derived and the amount of the proposed obligation; and (B) the activities and forms of assistance for which the Secretary of Defense plans to obligate such funds. (2) Not later than 30 days after the end of each quarter of fiscal years 1993 and 1994, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Energy, shall transmit to the committees of Congress named in sub- section (e) a report of the activities to re- duce the nuclear proliferation threat carried out under this section. Each report shall set forth the following: (A) Amounts spent for such activities and the purposes for which they were spent. (B) A description of the participation of the Department of Defense, and the partici- pation of other government agencies in such activities. (C) A description of the activities for which the funds were spent. (e) C OMMITTEES TORECEIVE REPORT .ÐThe committees of Congress referred to in sub- sections (d)(1) and (d)(2) areÐ (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Com- mittee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate. SEC. 1206. SOVIET WEAPONS DESTRUCTION. (a) F INDINGS .ÐThe Congress findsÐ (1) that programs established under the So- viet Nuclear Threat Reduction Act of 1991 (title II of Public Law 102±228) will contrib- ute significantly to the destruction of weap- ons of mass destruction of the states of the former Soviet Union and the reduction of the threat from such weapons and the potential for their proliferation; (2) that it is in the national security inter- ests of the United States to continue to re- duce the threats from the huge weapons ar- senals of the former Soviet Union and to pro- tect against the potential proliferation of these weapons and the materials removed from them, as well as the potential hazards resulting from the faulty storage of those weapons or materials; and (3) that the threats to nuclear safety and security described in section 211 of the So- viet Nuclear Threat Reduction Act of 1991 (title II of Public Law 102±228; 105 Stat. 1693) remain of urgent concern and that additional resources are necessary to meet these threats, particularly in areas such as safe and secure storage of fissile material, dis- mantlement of missiles and launchers, and the destruction of chemical weapons. (b) A DDITIONAL FUNDING .Ð(1) Section 221(a) of the Soviet Nuclear Threat Reduction Act of 1991 (title II of Public Law 102±228; 105 Stat. 1695) is amended by striking out ``$400,000,000'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``$650,000,000''. (2) Section 221(e) of such Act is amendedÐ (A) by inserting ``for fiscal year 1992 or fis- cal year 1993'' after ``under part B''; (B) by inserting ``for that fiscal year'' after ``for that program''; and(C) by striking out ``for fiscal year 1992'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``for that fiscal year''. (c) T ECHNICAL REVISIONS TO PUBLIC LAW 102±229.ÐPublic Law 102±229 is amendedÐ (1) in section 108 (105 Stat. 1708), by strik- ing out ``contained in H.R. 3807, as passed the Senate on November 25, 1991'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``(title II of Public Law 102± 228)''; and (2) in section 109 (105 Stat. 1708)Ð (A) by striking out ``H.R. 3807, as passed the Senate on November 25, 1991'' and insert- ing in lieu thereof ``Public Law 102±228 (105 Stat. 1696)''; and (B) by striking out ``of H.R. 3807''. It was decided in the Yeas ....... 356!affirmative ................... Nays ...... 54 T65.9 [Roll No. 160] AYESÐ356 Abercrombie Alexander Allard Anderson Andrews (ME) Andrews (TX) Annunzio Archer Aspin Atkins AuCoin Bacchus Baker Ballenger Barnard Barrett Barton Bateman Beilenson Bennett Bentley Bereuter Berman Bevill Bilbray Blackwell Boehlert Boehner Bonior Borski Boucher Boxer Brooks Broomfield Browder Brown Bryant Bunning Byron Callahan Camp Campbell (CO) Cardin Carper Carr Chandler Chapman Clay Clement Clinger Coleman (MO) Coleman (TX) Collins (IL) Condit Conyers Cooper Costello Coughlin Cox (IL) Coyne Cramer Crane Cunningham Darden Davis de la Garza DeFazio DeLauro Dellums Derrick Dickinson Dicks Dingell Dixon DonnellyDooley Dorgan (ND) Downey Dreier Durbin Dwyer Dymally Early Eckart Edwards (CA) Edwards (OK) Emerson English Erdreich Espy Evans Fascell Fawell Fazio Fields Fish Flake Foglietta Ford (MI) Ford (TN) Frank (MA) Frost Gallegly Gallo Gejdenson Gephardt Geren Gilchrest Gillmor Gilman Gingrich Glickman Gonzalez Goodling Gordon Goss Gradison Grandy Green Guarini Gunderson Hall (OH) Hamilton Hansen Harris Hastert Hatcher Hayes (IL) Hayes (LA) Hefley Henry Herger Hertel Hoagland Hobson Hochbrueckner Horn Horton Houghton Hoyer Huckaby Hughes Hunter Hutto Hyde Ireland Jacobs James Jefferson JenkinsJohnson (CT) Johnson (SD) Johnston Jones (NC) Kanjorski Kaptur Kasich Kennedy Kennelly Kildee Kleczka Klug Kolbe Kopetski Kostmayer Kyl LaFalce Lagomarsino Lancaster Lantos LaRocco Laughlin Leach Lehman (FL) Lent Levin (MI) Lewis (CA) Lewis (FL) Lewis (GA) Lightfoot Lipinski Livingston Lloyd Long Lowery (CA) Lowey (NY) Luken Machtley Manton Markey Marlenee Martin Martinez Matsui Mavroules Mazzoli McCandless McCloskey McCollum McCrery McCurdy McDade McDermott McEwen McGrath McHugh McMillan (NC) McMillen (MD) McNulty Meyers Mfume Michel Miller (CA) Miller (OH) Miller (WA) Mineta Mink Moakley Molinari Mollohan Montgomery Moody Moran Morella MorrisonMrazek Murtha Myers Nagle Natcher Neal (MA) Neal (NC) Nichols Nussle Oakar Oberstar Obey Olver Ortiz Orton Owens (UT) Oxley Packard Pallone Panetta Parker Pastor Patterson Paxon Payne (NJ) Payne (VA) Pease Pelosi Penny Peterson (FL) Peterson (MN) Pickle Porter Price Pursell Ramstad Rangel Ravenel Reed Regula Rhodes Richardson Ridge RiggsRitter Roberts Roe Rohrabacher Ros-Lehtinen Rose Rostenkowski Roukema Rowland Roybal Russo Sabo Sanders Sangmeister Santorum Sarpalius Savage Sawyer Saxton Scheuer Schiff Schroeder Schulze Schumer Serrano Sharp Shaw Shays Shuster Sikorski Sisisky Skaggs Skeen Skelton Slattery Slaughter Smith (FL) Smith (IA) Smith (NJ) Smith (TX) Snowe Solarz Spence SprattStaggers Stallings Stark Stearns Stenholm Stokes Studds Sundquist Swett Swift Synar Tanner Tauzin Taylor (MS) Thomas (GA) Thomas (WY) Thornton Torres Torricelli Towns Unsoeld Upton Vander Jagt Vento Visclosky Vucanovich Washington Waxman Weber Weiss Weldon Wheat Whitten Williams Wilson Wise Wolf Wolpe Wyden Yates Yatron Young (FL) Zimmer NOESÐ54 Allen Andrews (NJ) Applegate Armey Bilirakis Bliley Brewster Burton Coble Collins (MI) Combest Cox (CA) DeLay Doolittle Dornan (CA) Duncan Ewing Franks (CT)Gaydos Gekas Hall (TX) Hammerschmidt Hancock Holloway Hopkins Inhofe Johnson (TX) Jontz Kolter Moorhead Murphy Perkins Petri Poshard Quillen RahallRay Roemer Rogers Roth Schaefer Sensenbrenner Smith (OR) Solomon Stump Taylor (NC) Traficant Valentine Volkmer Walker Walsh Waters Young (AK) Zeliff NOT VOTINGÐ24 Ackerman Anthony Bruce Bustamante Campbell (CA) Dannemeyer Edwards (TX) EngelFeighan Gibbons Hefner Hubbard Jones (GA) Lehman (CA) Levine (CA) NowakOlin Owens (NY) Pickett Rinaldo Tallon Thomas (CA) Traxler Wylie So the amendment, as modified, was agreed to. After some further time, T65.10 CALL IN COMMITTEE Mr. COX of Illinois, Acting Chair- man, announced that the Committee, having had under consideration said bill, finding itself without a quorum, directed the Members to record their presence by electronic device, and the following-named Members respondedÐ T65.11 [Roll No. 161] Abercrombie Alexander Allard Allen Anderson Andrews (ME) Andrews (NJ) Andrews (TX)Annunzio Applegate Armey Aspin Atkins AuCoin Bacchus BakerBallenger Barnard Barrett Barton Bateman Beilenson Bennett Bentley VerDate 14-MAY-98 03:24 Jun 20, 1998 Jkt 047700 PO 00000 Frm 01002 Fmt 9634 Sfmt 5634 E:\JOURNAL\02DAY2.065 atx006