--- Page 0 ---
.- .= MR AGENCY USE - WleatlM bte June 24, 1976 Wiation Number DHR- 74 b INSTRUCTIONS: See Publication No. 76-RM-1 for instructions on completini this form. Forward signed original to Department of Archives and Hisrow, Records Management Division, 330 Capitol Avenue, Atlanta, Georgia, 30334. Attention: Scheduling Section. Agency Addtur FOR RECORDS WNAGEMENt USE Application Number Department of Human Resources Division of Administration Patient Accounts Unit At1 an ta , Georgia 76-23-0 47 Trinity Avenue, Rm. 318-H bm Received bm COIllQleT JUN 2 8 1976 - 6 $776 -04 Swiss &lien Latest 1972 I Present “he Patient Accounts Unit is responsible for actively investigating each patient’s ability 10 pay upon entering any State hospital; applies and collects for cost of care from hospital. ”his office also received Medicare insurance, Medicaid checks, personal net income or other ,enefits and applies them to individual accounts, checking to be sure there is no overpayment 5. Rreords Serier Tide Ifoilowed by tfde used in office; if different1 Patient Accounts Patient Payment Summary Files ’ ?. Record S.rh Demiption This file contains the following documents (include fm numbersand tirles, if anyl: Attach samples of the file. Oocumentsrelating to: - - . .- -‘ ~ _- - - -LJ identifying payments made by patient income sources to DHR . lndu&jwed listings identifying hospital #, patient account #, payee code, patient name, payee name, deposit date and amount of payment. l?Wpr/ File is arranged: chronologically by year thereunder by month, thereunder alphabegically by ‘-,. ’> -- patient’s name. > -. - Monthly Rderena Rate How often are records referred to which are: 5 ; Thirteen to twentydour months old 5 One to Jix months old twenty-five months and older ? 10 ; Seven to twelve months old *__ - ; Other ispecifyl 1 3. Annul( Rate of Accumulation ot R.Q& LO~WJM drawers : Lega14ze drawers ; Shelves

--- Page 1 ---
e. When one orwo documents in the file make it necessary to keep the entire file for a long pariod. could these Ratantlon Raquinments The following requims the ssrh to !a kept: I StatrLw YWI d. Audit priod years. b. Strnm of limitation years. e. Adminirtntiw need 7 Years c Fdarat law pars. f. Federal ratention instructions 3 years. Attach eopy or exwt of law or reguletionr. Explain administrative need. Based on previous reference experience, Patient Accounts need files for a 7 year period. ‘f __ 12 &proved Ohpodtion lnmuaions This agency recommends that the file Mias be cut off at the end of each: 0 Calendar Year: 0 Fiscal Year: 0 Other - then, 0 Hold in the current file area month(r) war($); then 0 Transfar to local holding area; hold 0 Transfer to State Rear& Canter: hold 0 Trader to Staa Archives for parmanem ratention. yeads); then yeadd: then 0 htrov. 0 otha IsPecifYj - Monthly Patient Payment Summary - Destroy upon receipt and verification of next nwnthly report. Annual Patient Payment Summary - Cut-off file at the end of the fiscal year, hold in current files area for 2 years; then transfer to the &ate Records Center, hold 5 years; then destroy. ,/ Thasa inrtructionc apply to all prior and future accumulations of the series. Stat. Records Committer ISignatum) Date lecommndationa in para- raph 12 are approved. rf dirapprovcd, mad, lettpr f explanation.) .