--- Page 0 ---
of 2 ACCEPTANCE TESTING (AT) TEST SITE GUIDELINES Acceptance Test (AT) Environment Guidelines The Acceptance Test (AT) environment was established for the following purposes: • Acceptance/ Performance testing of forms and functionality prior to production releases • S2S testing by agencies and applicants Acceptance Testing environment : http://at07web.grants.gov/ Primary Use The primary use of AT is for the Gr ants.gov team to test changes to the Grants.gov system before deploying them into the production environment. Therefore, agencies and applican ts are asked to follow these guidelines so that the AT environment is able to handle all of these activiti es without jeopardizing its primary function as the Grants.gov inter nal test system. In addition, following these guidelines will help ensure that agency and applic ant users of AT will be able to use the system in the most equitable manner possible. Load Testing Load testing is not permitted in the AT environment. The AT system is not built to handle the volume of applications that pr oduction does. Please keep your daily number of submissions to a “reasonable” limited number that are of average- sized applications. Peak Usage Time Peak usage times of AT tend to be from Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Eastern Time. Delays in processing times and unexpected downtimes are more likely to occur during these times. Please plan your testing accordingly. Report a Potential Issue To report a potential issues with A cceptance Testing environment, please send an email to the Grants. gov Contact Center at support@grants.gov or call 1-800-518-4726 and include the following information to expedite the investigation and resolution of the issue: • Description of issue • Tracking numbers • Opportunity numbers • Time issue occurred or was noticed

--- Page 1 ---
of 2 ACCEPTANCE TESTING (AT) TEST SITE GUIDELINES • Contact name, em ail, and phone number • Error messages or other informati on that might be helpful to the Grants.gov team in tro ubleshooting the issue Announcement of New System Builds Grants.gov will publish information about new system builds on AT in advance. However, please be aware that Grants. gov may need to deploy changes to the AT environment at any time, and this may result in unexpected downtimes or temporary outages of ce rtain functionality. Advance Notice Please inform Grants.gov two-weeks in advance when you are planning to use the AT system heavily for any extended per iod of time or when you are under a tight deadline. Restrictions of Use As the use of AT grows, Grants.gov may fi nd it necessary to restrict the use of AT and schedule the use of AT by agencie s and applicants. However, to date, we have had a great deal of cooperat ion regarding the use of the testing completed by both the applicant and agency community on AT. We wish for this type of cooperation to continue so t hat everyone can take advantage of this testing environment without Grants.gov placi ng restrictions on its use. Please be considerate of your fellow testers. Be advised that the production system is always the top priority for Grants.gov support. The Grants.gov team will handle issue reports in AT in a lower priority to those in production. Testi ng of any sort (i.e. application package submission) within the live Production environm ent is strictly prohibited. All S2S privileges will be revoked for any certif icate associated with a test application package in the Production environment. All testing for Grants.gov must be completed in the AT environment.