--- Page 0 ---
August 4, 2010: Weekly Washington Update August 04, 2010 This past week, we received good news about jobs in our area, and I voted on important legislation supporting our military and veterans. On Thursday, the Air Force announced that Langley Air Force Base (LAFB) will receive six additional F-22s resulting in over 100 additional jobs at the base. I have worked closely with the Air Force on this issue for over two years, and have spoken to Air Force Secretary Michael Donley on a number of occasions regarding Langley and its strong position for growth opportunities. It’s great news for Langley, and a strong boost in jobs for our area. Two key pieces of legislation for our troops and veterans passed the House last week with my support. The Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2010 , to cover combat operations, U.S. disaster assistance, Haiti relief and reconstruction, and benefits for Vietnam veterans, finally passed on Tuesday. In June, the House voted on an $81 billion version of the bill, which contained $33 billion for the Department of Defense to conduct ongoing war operations, and also billions in unrelated domestic spending. It’s unfortunate that for weeks, this particular bill supporting our brave men and women in uniform was delayed because of political attempts to add on unrelated domestic spending measures. Our troops deserve our unwavering support. It was essential that the House pass this legislation to support our men and women and uniform, and I’m glad we were able to complete the bill to give our troops the funding they need to accomplish their critical missions to keep our nation safe. The annual spending measure supporting military construction and veterans’ affairs also passed the House with overwhelming support. Here at home, America’s First District has a rich heritage of military service and dedication to the defense of our nation, and one of the top priorities in my work as your representative is to support our active military men and women, veterans, and their families. This measure goes well beyond simply funding war efforts by providing resources here at home to support our heroes with the benefits they have earned and deserve. This bill provides the support and structure to maintain adequate housing, and support veterans’ education, health care and other services. Overall, this legislation provides funding for military construction projects and improvements. It also provides for the planning and design of a variety of military facilities including operations, training, barracks, and medical care. Additionally, it funds Department of Veterans Affairs programs, including compensation for veterans and survivors, pension payments for disabled veterans, widows and children, housing credits, training and tuition assistance, and veterans’ medical care and treatment. Another critical element of funding in this bill provides for the GI Education Benefits program and for Arlington National Cemetery. 1 / 2

--- Page 1 ---
August 4, 2010: Weekly Washington Update August 04, 2010 As August begins, I am excited at the opportunities this month will allow for me to speak with you directly. I look forward to the many events, town halls, and meetings with many of you and I hope we have a chance to meet as we travel around America’s First District. For frequent updates of my work, be sure to follow me on Twitter and Facebook . Congressman Rob Wittman represents the First District of Virginia. He serves on the Natural Resources Committee and the Armed Services Committee where he is the Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. 2 / 2