--- Page 0 ---
17 -220 Insurance with other insurers -- Expense incurred benefits -- "Other valid coverage." (1) There may be a provision as follows: "Insurance with Other Insurers: If there be other valid coverage, not with this insurer, providing benefits for the same loss on a provision of service basis or on an expense incurred basis and of which this insurer has not been given written notice prior to the occurrence or commencement of loss, the only liability under any expense incurred coverage of this policy shall be for such proportion of the loss as the amount which would otherwise have been payable hereunder plus the total of the like amounts under all such other valid coverages for the same loss of which this insurer had notice bears to the total like amounts under all valid coverages for such loss, and for the return of such portion of the premiums paid as shall exceed the pro rata portion for the amount so determined. For the purpose of applying this provision when other coverage is on a provision of service basis, the like amount of such other coverage shall be taken as the amount which the services rendered would have cost in th e absence of such coverage." (2) If the foregoing policy provision is included in a policy which also contains the policy provision set out in subsection (1) of KRS 304.17 -230, there shall be added to the caption of the foregoing provision the phrase "... Expense Incurred Benefits." (3) The insurer may, at its option, include in the provision provided in subsection (1) of this section, a definition of "other valid coverage" approved as to form by the executive director, which definition shall be limited i n subject matter to coverage provided by organizations subject to regulation by insurance law or by insurance authorities of this or any other state of the United States or any province of Canada, and by hospital or medical service organizations, and to any other coverage the inclusion of which may be approved by the executive director. In the absence of such definition such term shall not include group insurance, automobile medical payments insurance, or coverage provided by hospital or medical service organizations or by union welfare plans or employer or employee benefit organizations. For the purpose of applying such policy provision no third -party liability coverage amount of benefit provided for such insured pursuant to any compulsory benefit statute, including any workers' compensation or employer's liability statute, whether provided by a governmental agency or otherwise, shall in all cases be deemed to be "other valid coverage" of which the insurer has had notice. In applying such policy provision no third -party liability coverage shall be included as "other valid coverage." Effective: June 18, 1970 History: Created 1970 Ky. Acts ch. 301, subtit. 17, sec. 22, effective June 18, 1970. Legislative Research Commission Note (6/20/2005). 2005 Ky. Acts chs. 11, 85, 95, 97, 98, 99, 123, and 181 instruct the Reviser of Statutes to correct statutory references to agencies and officers whose names have been changed in 2005 legislation confirming the reorganization of the executive branch. Such a correction ha s been made in this section.