--- Page 0 ---
Altmire Continues Efforts to Help Veterans Succeed as Small Business Owners May 20, 2009 (WASHINGTON, D.C.) -- Today, U.S. Congressman Jason Altmire (PA-04) continued his efforts to help veterans succeed as small business owners by voting for the Job Creation Through Entrepreneurship Act (H.R. 2352). A key provision of this bill builds upon legislation Altmire wrote that was signed into law last year to expand small business development programs for veterans who are entrepreneurs. As Chairman of the House Small Business Subcommittee on Investigations and Oversight, Altmire has consistently worked to expand small businesses’ access to capital and business development resources. “The Jobs Creation Through Entrepreneurship Act provides America’s small businesses with new and improved resources at a time when we need their innovative leadership more than ever,” Altmire said. “I am proud that part of this bill will build upon legislation I wrote during the last Congress to further expand small business opportunities for veterans and reservists. Providing our veterans with the tools that they need to succeed is both the right thing to do and a smart move that will help to strengthen our economy.” Congressman Altmire is also the author of the Military Reservist and Veteran Small Business Reauthorization Act (H.R. 4253), which became law last year. This law increases the number and capacity of Veterans Business Outreach Centers, which help veterans develop business plans, secure capital and more. The Jobs Creation Through Entrepreneurship Act builds upon Congressman Altmire’s legislation by creating a formalized network of Veterans Business Centers nationwide and making it easier for these centers to receive federal funding in the future. In addition to bolstering resources for veterans, the Jobs Creation Through Entrepreneurship Act also strengthens other important entrepreneurial development programs run by the Small Business Administration. These programs -- which include Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs) -- provide thousands of small business owners with valuable business expertise each year. Today’s legislation would also help small businesses secure capital and make it easier for them to participate in the federal contracting process. 1 / 1