--- Page 0 ---
VIRGINIA REGISTER OF REGULATIONS OCTOBER 2009 VOLUME 2, ISSUE 1 VIRGINIA REGISTER NEWS News you can use RIS TRAINING The Virginia Registrar's Office is presenting its RIS Basic and Intermediate Training Session on October 28, 2009. Please let us know if you would like to attend the following session: October 28 — 10 - 11:30 a.m. RIS Basic Training 12:15 - 2 p.m. RIS Intermediate Training Attendees may sign up for the morning session, afternoon session, or both. WHERE: General Assembly Bldg, 6t h Floor, DLAS training room. Seating is limited, so please make reservations with Terri Edwards at tedwards@dls.virginia.gov . If you would like to attend both morning and afternoon sessions, the cafeteria on the 6th Floor of the GAB is available for lunch purch ases or for enjoying a lunch you bring. Virginia Register of Regulations, 910 Capitol Street, 2nd Floor, Richmond, Vir- ginia 23219, (804) 786-3591. For comments and questions contact Terri Edwards at tedwards@dls.virginia.gov. SEPTEMBER NOIRA 9 Proposed 11 Final 27 Fast-Track 2 Emergency 1 TOTAL 50 RIS automatically places a regulation in the ne xt available Virginia Register volume and issue for publication when submitted from the Town Hall. Therefore, if you enter a later volume and issue in Town Hall, rather than use the default, RIS still places it in the default issue. Be sure to call our office if y ou intend for your regulation to be published in an issue other than the default, and we will manually move it to the issue you specify. WHAT’S YOUR ISSUE? For the latest Virginia Register publication schedule, click here . Inside this issue: RIS TRAINING 1 REGULATION BREAKDOWN 1 WHAT’S YOUR ISSUE? 1 GETTING TO KNOW YOU 2 INTEGRITY CHECK 2

--- Page 1 ---
PAGE 2 VIRGINIA REGISTER NEWS Cindy Berndt, the regulatory coordinator for the Department of Environmental Qu ality, started with the State Water Control Board 39 years ago. The State Water Control Board then merged with the Department of Air Pollution Control, the Department of Waste Management, and the Council on the Environment to form the Department of Environmental Quality in 1993. She became the regulatory coordinator for the Water Control Board in 1984 and for the Department of Environmental Quality in 1993. Over the years, Cindy has worn many different hats. In the early years, she worked in enforcement, before moving into the financial end doing contract management and financial services. Since 1984, she has focused on regulation development through the APA. She also serves as staff to the three regulatory Boards (Air, Waste, and Water). Cindy has two children and a dog. She enjoys reading, spending time with friends, and doing most any kind of puzzle: crossword, suduko, daily jumble, and jigsaw. “If anyone needs help with it (a regulation), contact the staff at the Registrar’s office. They’re the best.” - Cindy Berndt INTEGRITY -- WE ALL WANT IT! (PART I) With the implementation of RIS came the In tegrity Check feature. Here's how it works and how you can use it to ensure the integrity of the sections you amend in the Virginia Administrative Code. Click "integ " in the list of RIS actions as shown. The program performs a document compare routine of all text in th e current section in RIS with the text in the online VAC, but skips the following punctuation marks: commas, periods, semicolons and colons. This means it is up to agencies and the Registrar's staff to pay particul ar attention to those items. Pa rentheses are not skipped and are treated as "letters" in text so if a word with an opening or closing parenthesis is being amende d, strike through the old word including the parenthesis and underscore the new word with the appropriate parenthesis. For example: (2004) (2008) . For numbered lists, strike the num ber and its period and underscore the new number and its period. For example: 2. 3. Capitalization matters to the integrity check program. So, when a dding text to the beginning of a sentence, strike the word wit h the uppercase first letter and underscore the word in lowercase. For example: The Prior to su bmitting the application, the applicant shall ... What happens if the text does not match? If the text is an exact match, the program responds wi th If the text is not an exact match, the program responds with and marks th e spot of the discrepancy with There's a problem starting here ==> Check the text in the current online VAC to determine if a letter or word is inappropriately stricken, underscored, or missing. More ways to troubleshoot an integrity check failure in Part II of Integrity -- We all want it! Integrity check passed! Integrity check failed!