--- Page 0 ---
Hoyer Praises Appointment of Mary Lacey as Program Executive Officer for the National Security Personnel System WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Steny Hoyer released the following statement today following the Department of Defense announcement that Mary E. Lacey, currently the technical director of the Naval Surface Warfare Center of the Naval Sea Systems Command, and formerly the Executive Director of the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Indian Head, Maryland, Division, has been appointed as the program executive officer for the National Security Personnel System (NSPS) by Secretary of the Navy Gordon England. "Secretary England made an outstanding choice today in appointing Mary Lacey as one of his top advisors and head of the NSPS Program Executive Office. As a personal friend, I have long witnessed Mary's impressive leadership ability and unmatched expertise in her field. I am especially grateful for her tremendous contributions to our region through her work at Indian Head and NAVSEA. "Mary will unquestionably be missed by the men and women who served with her at Indian Head and the thousands of civilian employees who have benefited from her work on their behalf. Mary is currently manages over 16,000 employees - more than 9,000 of whom are currently in one of the Department of Defense's personnel demonstration projects. "I have no doubt that in her new position, she will be able to use her substantial experience and valuable insight to ensure that our robust civilian workforce has the tools and resources they need to continue the important work they are doing to protect our nation. "We are very fortunate to have a native Marylander assuming this important post that will have a major impact on the lives of the federal employees living in Southern Maryland. I am grateful that Secretary England has recognized what an asset Mary is to our federal civilian workforce and look forward to continuing to work closely with her when she assumes her new position." # # # 1 / 1