--- Page 0 ---
THE CENTRE FOR HUMANITARIAN DATA Our workstreamsOur vision We want to create a future where everyone involved in a humanitarian response can access the data they need, when and how they need it, to make informed and responsible decisions. DATA SERVICES We manage the Humanitarian Data Exchange (HDX), OCHA’s open platform for sharing data across crises and organizations. Launched in 2014, HDX will mark 10 years of operations this year. DATA RESPONSIBILITY We develop guidance and processes for managing sensitive data in a safe, ethical and effective way. We coordinate global inter-agency forums to increase awareness and adoption of responsible data practices in the humanitarian sector. LEARNING AND PRACTICE We offer in-person and remote training opportunities to improve the data skills and expertise of humanitarians in technical and non-technical roles.DATA SCIENCE We use data science and risk analysis to drive preemptive decision making for humanitarian action. We assess models and forecasts for use in anticipatory action and provide guidance on climate science and technical language.Closing data gaps in priority humanitarian operations. According to our latest State of Open Humanitarian Data report, we estimate that 73 percent of relevant, complete data is available across 25 locations with humanitarian crises. Supporting OCHA’s anticipatory action frameworks through the development and monitoring of trigger mechanisms in over ten countries. Activating adoption of the OCHA Data Responsibility Guidelines and the IASC Operational Guidance on Data Responsibility. Promoting learning resources and guidelines and offer training to help humanitarians be more confident using data. Our locations The Centre is based in the Netherlands in The Hague Humanity Hub, a co-working space for organizations focused on social impact. The Centre has a small number of staff in The Hague and is further supported by geographically-distributed teams in Bangkok, Dakar, Geneva, Nairobi, and New York, among other locations. Contact us We are here to help! Let us know how we can support your data work. We offer free services to the humanitarian community ranging from data cleaning to assessing disclosure risk of sensitive data or creating custom data visualizations. • Visit HDX to find and use humanitarian data, or sign up for an account to make your organization’s data accessible to partners around the world. • Help us improve our services by signing up to participate in ongoing user research. The OCHA Centre for Humanitarian Data is focused on increasing the use and impact of data in humanitarian response. Our priorities in 2024 The Centre will help humanitarians to make informed and responsible decisions to meet people’s most urgent needs. UN Secretary-General António Guterres Get involved Website: centre.humdata.org | Mailing list: bit.ly/humdatamailing | X: @humdata | YouTube: bit.ly/HumDataYouTube | LinkedIn: bit.ly/humdatalinkedin | Email: centrehumdata@un.org