--- Page 0 ---
215Federal Railroad Administration, DOT §219.300 (h) Except as provided in §219.201 (with respect to non-qualifying events),each specimen (including each splitspecimen) provided under this subpartis retained for not less than threemonths following the date of the acci-dent or incident (two years from thedate of the accident or incident in thecase of a specimen testing positive foralcohol or a controlled substance).Post-mortem specimens may be madeavailable to the National Transpor-tation Safety Board (on request). (i) An employee (donor) may, within 60 days of the date of the toxicology re-port, request that his or her split speci-men be tested by the designated lab-oratory or by another laboratory cer-tified by Health and Human Servicesunder that Department ’s Guidelines for Federal Workplace Drug Testing Pro-grams that has available an appro-priate, validated assay for the fluid andcompound declared positive. Sincesome analytes may deteriorate duringstorage, detected levels of the com-pound shall, as technically appropriate,be reported and considered corrobora-tive of the original test result. Any re-quest for a retest shall be in writing,specify the railroad, accident date andlocation, be signed by the employee/donor, be addressed to the AssociateAdministrator for Safety, Federal Rail-road Administration, Washington, DC20590, and be designated ‘‘ADMINIS- TRATIVELY CONFIDENTIAL: AT-TENTION ALCOHOL/DRUG PROGRAMMANAGER. ’’ The expense of any em- ployee-requested split specimen test ata laboratory other than the laboratorydesignated under this subpart shall beborne by the employee. §219.213 Unlawful refusals; con- sequences. (a) Disqualification . An employee who refuses to cooperate in providingbreath, blood or urine specimens fol-lowing an accident or incident speci-fied in this subpart must be withdrawnfrom covered service and must bedeemed disqualified for covered servicefor a period of nine (9) months in ac-cordance with the conditions specifiedin §219.107. (b) Procedures . Prior to or upon with- drawing the employee from coveredservice under this section, the railroadmust provide notice of the reason for this action and an opportunity forhearing before a presiding officer otherthan the charging official. The em-ployee is entitled to the proceduralprotection set out in §219.104(d). (c) Subject of hearing . The hearing re- quired by this section must determinewhether the employee refused to sub-mit to testing, having been requestedto submit, under authority of this sub-part, by a representative of the rail-road. In determining whether a dis-qualification is required, the hearingofficial shall, as appropriate, also con-sider the following: (1) Whether the railroad made a good faith determination, based on reason-able inquiry, that the accident or inci-dent was within the mandatory testingrequirements of this subpart; and (2) In a case where a blood test was refused on the ground it would be in-consistent with the employee ’s health, whether such refusal was made in goodfaith and based on medical advice. Subpart D —Testing for Cause §219.300 Mandatory reasonable sus- picion testing. (a) Requirements . (1) A railroad must require a covered employee to submitto an alcohol test when the railroadhas reasonable suspicion to believethat the employee has violated anyprohibition of subpart B of this partconcerning use of alcohol. The rail-road’s determination that reasonable suspicion exists to require the coveredemployee to undergo an alcohol testmust be based on specific, contempora-neous, articulable observations con-cerning the appearance, behavior,speech or body odors of the employee. (2) A railroad must require a covered employee to submit to a drug testwhen the railroad has reasonable sus-picion to believe that the employee hasviolated the prohibitions of subpart Bof this part concerning use of con-trolled substances. The railroad ’s de- termination that reasonable suspicionexists to require the covered employeeto undergo a drug test must be basedon specific, contemporaneous,articulable observations concerningthe appearance, behavior, speech or VerDate 11<MAY>2000 09:16 Nov 28, 2001 Jkt 194203 PO 00000 Frm 00215 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\194203T.XXX pfrm01 PsN: 194203T