--- Page 0 ---
October 2009 Benefits of the Affordable He alth Care for America Act In the 4th Congressional District of Oregon Committee on Energy and Commerce The Affordable Health Care for America Act will make health care affordable for the middle class, provide security for seniors, and guarantee access to health insurance coverage for the uninsured — while responsibly reducing the federal deficit over the ne xt decade and beyond. This analysis examines the benefits of the legislation in th e 4th Congressional Dist rict of Oregon. Congressman Peter A. DeFazio represents the district. In Congressman DeFazio’s district, the Affo rdable Health Care for America Act will: • Improve employer-based coverage for 408,000 residents. • Provide credits to help pay for coverage for up to 209,000 households. • Improve Medicare for 137,000 beneficiaries, including closing the prescription drug donut hole for 14,600 seniors. • Allow 20,000 small businesses to obtain affordable hea lth care coverage and provide tax credits to help reduce health insurance costs for up to 18,300 small businesses. • Provide coverage for 86,000 uninsured residents. • Protect up to 1,200 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs. • Reduce the cost of uncompensated care fo r hospitals and health care providers by $78 million . Affordable and Improved Health Ca re Coverage for the Middle Class Better health care coverage for the insured. Approximately 56% of the district’s population, 408,000 residents, receive health care coverage from thei r employer. Under the le gislation, indi viduals and families with employer-based coverage can keep the he alth insurance coverage they have now, and it will get better. As a result of the insurance reforms in the bill, there will be no co-pays or deductibles for preventive care; no more rate increases or covera ge denials for pre-existing conditions, gender, or occupation; and guaranteed oral, vision, and hearing benefits for children. Affordable health ca re for the uninsured. Those who do not receive health care coverage through their employer will be able to purchase coverage at group rates through a health insurance exchange. Individuals and families with an income of up to four times the federal poverty level — an income of up to $88,000 for a family of four — will receive affordabili ty credits to help cover the cost of coverage. There are 209,000 households in the dist rict that could qualify for these affordability credits if they need to purchase their own coverage. Coverage for individuals with pre-existing conditions. There are 15,500 individu als in the district who have pre-existing medical conditions that could prevent them from buying insurance. Under the bill’s insurance reforms, they will now be able to purchase affordable coverage. Health care and financial security. There were 1,200 health care-related bankruptcies in the district in 2008, caused primarily by the health care costs not cove red by insurance. The bill caps annual out-of-

--- Page 1 ---
pocket costs at $5,000 for singles and $10,000 for families and eliminates lifetime limits on insurance coverage, ensuring that no citizen wi ll have to face financial ruin because of high health care costs. Security for Seniors Improving Medicare. There are 137,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the district. The health care reform legislation improves Medicare by pr oviding free preventive and wellne ss care, improving primary and coordinated care, improving nur sing home quality, and strengthen ing the Medicare Trust Fund. Closing the Part D donut hole. Each year, 14,600 seniors in the dist rict hit the donut hol e and are forced to pay their full drug costs, despite having Part D drug coverage. The legisl ation will provide these seniors with immediate relief, c overing the first $500 of donut hole costs in 2010, cutting brand-name drug costs in the donut hole by 50%, and completely eliminating the donut hole by 2019. Helping Small Businesses Helping small businesses obtain health insurance. Under the legislation, businesses with up to 100 employees will be able to join th e health insurance exchange, benef itting from group rates and a greater choice of insurers. There are 20,000 small businesses in th e district that will be ab le to join the health insurance exchange. Tax credits for small businesses. Small businesses with 25 employees or less and average wages of less than $40,000 will qualify for tax credits of up to 50% of the costs of providing health insurance. There are up to 18,300 small businesses in the di strict that could qualify for credits. Covering the Uninsured Coverage of the uninsured. There are 122,000 uninsured individuals in the district, 20% of the district residents under age 65. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that nationwide, 96% of all Americans will have insurance coverage when the bill takes effect. If this benchmark is reached in the district, 86,000 people who curren tly do not have health insura nce will receive coverage. Relieving the burden of uncompensated care. In 2008, health care provider s in the district provided $78 million worth of uncompensated care. This care was provided to individuals who lacked insurance coverage and were unable to pay thei r bills. Under the legisl ation, these costs of uncompensated care will be virtually eliminated. Deficit Responsibility No deficit spending. The cost of health care reform under the le gislation is fully paid for: half through eliminating waste, fraud, abuse, and excessive profits for private insurers in Medicare and Medicaid and half through a surcharge on the income of the top 0.3% wealthiest individuals. This surcharge will affect only 460 households in the district. The surcharge will not affect 99.85% of taxpaye rs in the district. Reducing the deficit. According to the Congressional Budget O ffice, the bill will cut the deficit by over $30 billion over the next decade and will continue to create a budget surplus over the next 20 years. This analysis is based upon the following sources: the U.S. Census (data on insurance rates and small businesses); the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (data on Medicare and Part D enro llment) the Department of Health and Human Services (data on health care-related bank ruptcies, uncompensated care, and pre-existing conditions); and the House Co mmittee on Ways and Means (data on the surtax).