--- Page 0 ---
93Bureau of Export Administration, Commerce §700.52 Commerce. A sample Form BXA –999 is attached at Appendix I. [49 FR 30414, July 30, 1984; 49 FR 50171, Dec. 27, 1984. Redesignated at 54 FR 601, Jan. 9,1989, as amended at 63 FR 31924, June 11, 1998] §700.51 Requests for priority rating authority. (a) If a rated order is likely to be de- layed because a person is unable to ob-tain items not normally rated underthis regulation, the person may requestthe authority to use a priority ratingin ordering the needed items. Examplesof items for which priority ratings canbe authorized include: (1) Production or construction equip- ment; (2) Computers when not used as pro- duction items; and (3) Expansion, rebuilding or replacing plant facilities. (b) Rating authority for production or construction equipment. (1) A request for priority rating authority for produc-tion or construction equipment mustbe submitted to the appropriate Dele-gate Agency. The Delegate Agencymay establish particular forms to beused for these requests ( e.g., Depart- ment of Defense Form DD 691.) (2) When the use of a priority rating is authorized for the procurement ofproduction or construction equipment,a rated order may be used either topurchase or to lease such equipment.However, in the latter case, the equip-ment may be leased only from a personengaged in the business of leasing suchequipment or from a person willing tolease rather than sell. (c) Rating authority in advance of a rated prime contract. (1) In certain cases and upon specific request, Commerce,in order to promote the national de-fense, may authorize a person to placea priority rating on an order to a sup-plier in advance of the issuance of arated prime contract. In these in-stances, the person requesting advancerating authority must obtain sponsor-ship of the request from the appro-priate Delegate Agency. The personshall also assume any business risk as-sociated with the placing of rated or-ders if these orders have to be can-celled in the event the rated prime con-tract is not issued.(2) The person must state the fol- lowing in the request: It is understood that the authorization of a priority rating in advance of our receiving arated prime contract from a Delegate Agen-cy and our use of that priority rating withour suppliers in no way commits the Dele-gate Agency, the Department of Commerceor any other government agency to enterinto a contract or order or to expend funds.Further, we understand that the FederalGovernment shall not be liable for any can-cellation charges, termination costs, orother damages that may accrue if a ratedprime contract is not eventually placed and,as a result, we must subsequently cancel or-ders placed with the use of the priority rat-ing authorized as a result of this request. (3) In reviewing requests for rating authority in advance of a rated primecontract, Commerce will consider,among other things, the following cri-teria: (i) The probability that the prime contract will be awarded; (ii) The impact of the resulting rated orders on suppliers and on other au-thorized programs; (iii) Whether the contractor is the sole source; (iv) Whether the item being produced has a long lead time; (v) The political sensitivity of the project; and (vi) The time period for which the rating is being requested. (4) Commerce may require periodic reports on the use of the rating author-ity granted under paragraph (c) of thissection. (5) If a rated prime contract is not issued, the person shall promptly no-tify all suppliers who have receivedrated orders pursuant to the advancedrating authority that the priority rat-ing on those orders is cancelled. §700.52 Examples of assistance. (a) While special priorities assistance may be provided for any reason in sup-port of this regulation, it is usuallyprovided in situations where: (1) A person is experiencing difficulty in obtaining delivery against a ratedorder by the required delivery date; or (2) A person cannot locate a supplier for an item needed to fill a rated order. (b) Other examples of special prior- ities assistance include: VerDate 11<MAY>2000 09:49 Jan 31, 2002 Jkt 197046 PO 00000 Frm 00093 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\197046T.XXX pfrm07 PsN: 197046T

--- Page 1 ---
9415 CFR Ch. VII (1 –1–02 Edition) §700.53 (1) Ensuring that rated orders receive preferential treatment by suppliers; (2) Resolving production or delivery conflicts between various rated orders; (3) Assisting in placing rated orders with suppliers; (4) Verifying the urgency of rated or- ders; and (5) Determining the validity of rated orders. §700.53 Criteria for assistance. Requests for special priorities assist- ance should be timely, i.e., the request has been submitted promptly andenough time exists for the DelegateAgency or Commerce to effect a mean-ingful resolution to the problem, andmust establish that: (a) There is an urgent need for the item; and (b) The applicant has made a reason- able effort to resolve the problem. §700.54 Instances where assistance will not be provided. Special priorities assistance is pro- vided at the discretion of the DelegateAgencies and Commerce when it is de-termined that such assistance is war-ranted to meet the objectives of thisregulation. Examples where assistancemay not be provided include situationswhen a person is attempting to: (a) Secure a price advantage;(b) Obtain delivery prior to the time required to fill a rated order; (c) Gain competitive advantage;(d) Disrupt an industry apportion- ment program in a manner designed toprovide a person with an unwarrantedshare of scarce items; or (e) Overcome a supplier ’s regularly established terms of sale or conditionsof doing business. [49 FR 30414, July 30, 1984. Redesignated at 54 FR 601, Jan. 9, 1989, as amended at 63 FR31924, June 11, 1998] §700.55 Assistance programs with Canada and other nations. (a) To promote military assistance to foreign nations, this section providesfor authorizing priority ratings to per-sons in Canada and in other foreign na-tions to obtain items in the UnitedStates in support of approved pro-grams. Although priority ratings haveno legal authority outside of theUnited States, this section also pro- vides information on how persons inthe United States may obtain informalassistance in Canada. (b) Canada. (1) The joint U.S.-Cana- dian military arrangements for the de-fense of North America and the inte-grated nature of their defense indus-tries as set forth in the U.S.-Canadian Statement of Principles for Economic Co-operation (October 26, 1950) require close coordination and the establish-ment of a means to provide mutual as-sistance to the defense industries lo-cated in both countries. (2) The Department of Commerce co- ordinates with the Canadian PublicWorks and Government Services Can-ada on all matters of mutual concernrelating to the administration of thisregulation. A copy of the Memorandumof Understanding between the two de-partments is provided at appendix IV. (3) Any person in the United States ordering defense items in Canadashould inform the Canadian supplierthat the items being ordered are to beused to fill a rated order. The Canadiansupplier should be informed that if pro-duction materials are needed from theUnited States by the supplier or thesupplier ’s vendor to fill the order, they should contact the Canadian PublicWorks and Government Services Can-ada for authority to place rated ordersin the United States. (4) Any person in Canada producing defense items for the Canadian govern-ment may also obtain priority ratingauthority for items to be purchased inthe United States by applying to theCanadian Public Works and Govern-ment Services Canada in accordancewith procedures specified by that De-partment. (5) Persons in Canada needing special priorities assistance in obtaining de-fense items in the United States mayapply for such assistance to the Cana-dian Public Works and GovernmentServices Canada. Public Works andGovernment Services Canada will for-ward appropriate requests to Com-merce. (6) Any person in the United States requiring assistance in obtaining itemsin Canada must submit a requestthrough the Delegate Agency to Com-merce on Form BXA –999. Commerce VerDate 11<MAY>2000 09:49 Jan 31, 2002 Jkt 197046 PO 00000 Frm 00094 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\197046T.XXX pfrm07 PsN: 197046T