--- Page 0 ---
SSI In The District of Columbia People in financial need who are 65 or older or people of any age who are blind or have adisability (including children) may be eligiblefor monthly cash payments from the federalgovernment. The payments are called Supple-mental Security Income (SSI). You may be eligible for SSI payments if you have little or no income and if the value ofthe things you own is less than $2,000 if you’re single or $3,000 if you’re married. We do not count the value of your home or yourcar (if it is not an expensive model). Certainother assets do not count either. Check withSocial Security for more information. Also, to get SSI you must be living in the U.S. or the Northern Mariana Islands and be aU.S. citizen or an alien who is living in theU.S. legally. And, you must apply for anyother money benefits you might be eligiblefor. Even though the Social Security Admini- stration runs the program, SSI is not thesame as Social Security. Money for SSI pay-ments comes from the general fund of theU.S. Treasury. The District of Columbia adds money to the federal payment. For the convenience ofSSI recipients, the District of Columbia andthe federal government have agreed to in- clude the District of Columbia’s share of the payments in the federal check. Therefore, SSIrecipients receive one U.S. government checkduring the first week of each month with fed-eral and District of Columbia money included. The back of this factsheet has a table show- ing the 1996 maximum monthly paymentamounts for SSI recipients in different livingarrangements.Medical Assistance If you receive SSI payments, you usually getmedical assistance (Medicaid) automatically.A separate Medicaid application isn’t neces- sary. If you have questions about Medicaid, you should contact your local Department ofHuman Services. Food Stamps When you receive SSI, you also may be eligible for food stamps. Food stamps canhelp you buy more food without spending more money. Social Security doesn’t decide if you can get food stamps. However, peoplewho live in a household where everyone is ap-plying for or receiving SSI may apply for foodstamps at a Social Security office. Other Social Services Additional social services are available to SSIrecipients through their local Department of Human Services. These services include: •Information, referral, and follow-up services •Exploration of service needs •Liaison with service providersFor more information on these and other social services, contact your local Departmentof Social Services. SSI Payments The amounts shown on the back of thisfactsheet include both federal and District of Columbia money. Not all SSI recipients re- ceive the maximum payment amounts. Pay-ments may be lower if you have otherincome. Your Social Security office can giveSocial Security

--- Page 1 ---
you more information about payment levels and how income affects them. For More Information You can get more information 24 hours a day by calling Social Security’s toll-free number,1-800-772-1213 . You can speak to a service representative between the hours of 7 a.m.and 7 p.m. on business days. Our lines arebusiest early in the week and early in the month, so if your business can wait, it’s best to call at other times. Whenever you call,have your Social Security number handy. If you have a touch-tone phone, recorded information and services are available24 hours a day, including weekends and holi-days.People who are deaf or hard of hearing may call our toll-free “TTY” number, 1-800-325- 0778, between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. on businessdays. The people at Social Security can tell you what information you need to apply for SSI. Parents and guardians can apply on behalf of children under 18 who are blind or have a disability. The Social Security Administration treats all calls confidentially—whether they’re made to our toll-free numbers or to one of our localoffices. We also want to ensure that you re-ceive accurate and courteous service. That iswhy we have a second Social Security repre-sentative monitor some incoming and outgoing telephone calls. Social Security Administration SSA Publication No. 05-11162March 1996 ( Destroy prior editions )Category Total SSI Paymen t Independent Living Eligible Individual $474.70 Eligible Couple 705.00 Living in the Household of Another Eligible Individual 321.47 Eligible Couple 489.73 Medicaid Facility Eligible Individual 70.00 Eligible Couple 140.00 Adult Foster-Care Home (50 beds or less) Eligible Individual 617.20 Eligible Couple 1,225.40 Adult Foster-Car e Home (over 50 beds) Eligible Individual 727.20 Eligible Couple 1,448.40