--- Page 0 ---
The CDCR unveiled a new web page August 10 that notifi es the public when a sex off ender removes his or her Global Positioning Satellite ankle monitor for the purposes of evading parole supervision. The new web page posts the parolee’s name, physical description, picture and last known whereabouts of those registered off enders on parole who have removed their ankle monitor. Alerts will be updated within hours of a warrant being issued. Members of the media and the public are invited to subscribe via email to the alert system free of charge. This web page was established following a directive issued last week by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger that CDCR notify the public and the media whenever a paroled sex off ender removes his or her GPS unit and absconds from parole. CDCR already notifi es law enforcement through the California Department of Justice’s Criminal Intelligence and Investigation system alerts. The parolee descriptors are located in Parole Law Enforcement Automated Data System (LEADS). To subscribe to alerts, visit the new web page http://www.cdcr.ca.gov/parole/GPS-Wanted-Alerts.html and input your email address. For more information on California parole reform and public safety eff orts please visit: www.cdcr.ca.gov and click on the Parole tab. August 16, 2010 For more details on this information please visit the CDCR Intranet at http://intranet/ or www.cdcr.ca.gov CCWF fi refi ghters attempt to save a home. CCWF Female Fire Fighters Have Busy Summer as First Responders This has been a busy summer for the inmate fi re crew at Central California Women’s Facility (CCWF), which has responded to a number of county-wide emergencies and situations where the specially-trained inmates were often the fi rst to arrive at a variety of rural locations. Recent incidents included two vehicle fi res, three vegetation fi res, two medical aids, and most notably a structure fi re in the city of Chowchilla. Each year, these fi refi ghters respond to nearly 1,200 calls. Most recently, CCWF received a call reporting the fi re of the home of a mother and her three daughters. Three fi remen and fi ve fi refi ghters from CCWF responded to the emergency. The house suff ered approximately $140,000 in damages and was destroyed by the fi re. Fortunately, there were no injuries suff ered by the family or fi refi ghters. “I am sorry for the family that lost their home, but I am overjoyed that there were no injuries, ” said Warden (A) Javier Cavazos. “The responding female fi refi ghters at CCWF did an excellent job. ” The fi rehouse is the only station in Madera County that is staff ed around the clock. The Madera County Board of Supervisors has given the responsibility to CCWF to fi ll Self Contained Breathing Apparatus Bottles. The CCWF fi re team now ensures the maintenance of life saving equipment for the remainder of the county’s emergency responders. “The Board of Supervisors in Madera County has shown an extreme amount of confi dence in our institution’s abilities going so far as to buy the team a new fi re truck in 2008 to quicken their emergency response, ” Warden Cavazos continued. The fi re fi ghting crew at CCWF is defi nitely recognized an important part of this elite group of emergency personnel. For more information on CCWF, please visit the institution homepage at: http://www.cdcr.ca.gov/ Facilities_Locator/CCWF.html CDCR Unveils Website to Alert the Public When Sex Off enders Remove GPS Devices