--- Page 0 ---
Murphy Unveils Online Tax Resource Center Contact: Kristen Bossi (202) 225-4476 WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Chris Murphy (CT-5) announced a new feature on his web site, an Online Tax Resource Center, to assist families in preparing their 2007 returns and in achieving all deductions, credits, and refunds that are owed to them. "The annual task of filing your taxes can be a time consuming process. The goal of my Online Tax Resource Center is to provide as much information as possible in one place so that you can take care of your taxes as quickly as possible," said Murphy. The Online Tax Resource Center includes information about: - The economic stimulus package recently signed into law, which allows tax rebates of up to $600 per individual, up to $1,200 per couple, plus $300 per child to be sent as early as mid-May. - Free tax preparation services. If your 2007 adjusted gross income was $54,000 or less, you can use Free File to prepare and file your Federal Income Tax Return online. Other resources available are the Tax Counseling for the Elderly program and the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program. - The Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), which is a federal income tax credit for people who work but have low incomes. - The Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). This tax was in the news this year because Congress had to act to ensure that 23 million Americans, including more than 72,000 in Connecticut's Fifth District, did not get hit with this tax that was originally intended for wealthy families to pay their share of taxes. - How to track your refund. - The Taxpayer Advocate Service, which is an independent organization inside the IRS. The purpose of the service is to assist taxpayers who are facing economic harm or who have tax problems that have not been resolved through normal channels. - Federal and state resources, and useful phone numbers. # # #Chris Murphy http://www.chrismurphy.house.gov Powered by Joomla! Generated: 15 July, 2012, 09:32

--- Page 1 ---
Chris Murphy http://www.chrismurphy.house.gov Powered by Joomla! Generated: 15 July, 2012, 09:32