--- Page 0 ---
July 20, 2005 Military Oahu S tar DoD Look s To Help Disabled Veterans Donna Miles American For ces Press Service WASHINGTO N – Veterans with servic e-related disabili ties looking f or business opportunities n eed look n o further than the U.S. g overnment – a m ore specificall y, the Defense Departmen t. DoD, the fed eral governm ent’s bigge st buyer of goods and servic es, is working to dramatical ly boost the contrac ts it awards to small busi nesses owned by ser vice-disabled veteran s, according to the defense secretary’s ch ief advoc ate for small busin ess affair s. DoD currently award s about $500 million in contrac ts every year to businesses owned and op erated by veteran s with service-related disab ilities. Frank Ram os said today during an interview with the Pentagon Channel and the American Forces Press Service. But the goal i s to increase that amount m ore than tenfold – to $ 6 billion – within the next five years, Ramos said. That would b ring the Defense Dep artment in line with a law th at requires all federal agencies to award at least 3 percent of their pr ocuremen t dollars to sm all business owned and oper ated by service-disabled veteran s. Pre sident Bush i ssued a pre sidential e xecutive order last October requi ring all agenc ies to develop a strategic plan to put the legisl ation into eff ect. Boosting contracting oppor tunities f or service-disabled veteran s reflects the nation’s recogniti on of their service and sacrifices, Ramos said. It benefits th e Defense Department, as well, by ta pping into the e xpertise veter ans with han ds-on experience with the latest military equipment and systems and an understandin g of the military’s need s. “There’ s a tremendous training ground in experience base that they bring to the table,” Ramos said. In addition, many of th ese veterans already po ssess the se curity c learances req uired to bid on some military contr acts, he said. To help get the word ou t to servic e-disabled oppo rtunities with th e Defense Department, the DoD Office of Small and Disadvan taged Business Utilization is conducting an exten sive ou treach and education program. They’ve t eamed up with th e Small Busin ess Administr ation and lau nched a Web site to help e ducate service-disabled veteran-owned businesses about government co ntracting and subcontracting opportunities. In addition, they’re encouraging busine ss owners to join the Central Contractor Registry, used t o award DoD contr acts and subco ntracts. Service-di sabled veteran s – particularly those n ew to the busine ss community or thinking of st arting their own busin esses – “need to underst and what th e proc esses and req uirements are” when con tracting or subcon tractin g with the fe deral govern ment, Ramos said.

--- Page 1 ---
The first National Veterans Small Business Conference , in June, helped get the word out about business opportunities in DoD to more than 700 attendees. Most of them were service-disabled veterans who owned small businesses. While emphasizing DoD’s interest in awarding more contracts to service-disabled veterans, Ramos stressed that “that there’s no guarantee that just because you’re a disabled veteran, that you’ll get a contract.” Whether they’re bidding on a contract to build a roadway, refurbish a building, provide computer consulting or deliver another service or product, they have to be able to meet a specific need in a professional manner, Ramos said. “You must bring fo rward a solution and some competency to it,” he said. “Whatever you produce for the department must be the best. There is no room for mediocrity.” That standard is critical, because America’s warfig hters rely on the products and services contractors deliver to be the department. “And if it fails, it could be catastrophic,” Ramos said. “So we want the best of the best.” Ramos encourages service-disabled veterans interested in contracting with the Defense Department to evaluate the department’s needs and come forward wi th concrete ways to meet them. “They need to come in and say, “What solutions can I provide the Department of Defense? What can I bring to the table?” Ramos said. For those interested in sharing their skills and expertise, Ramos predicts big opportunities ahead. More information is posted on the Small Business Administration and DoD Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization Websites.