--- Page 0 ---
120 STAT. 3814 PROCLAMATION 8026—JUNE 1, 2006 Black Music Month recognizes some of the brightest lights of American creativity and honors the African-American men and women whose artentertains and inspires us. The incredible talents of black musicianscontinue to speak to every heart, reflecting the beauty and pride of ourgreat Nation. NOW, THEREFORE, I, GEORGE W. BUSH, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Con-stitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2006as Black Music Month. I encourage all Americans to learn more aboutthe history of black music and to enjoy the great contributions of Afri-can-American musicians. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand six, and of the Inde-pendence of the United States of America the two hundred and thir-tieth. GEORGE W. BUSH Proclamation 8026 of June 1, 2006 National Child’s Day, 2006 By the President of the United States of America A Proclamation A hopeful society ensures that its children are provided with the knowledge, skills, and opportunities to succeed. On National Child’sDay, we reaffirm our commitment to America’s children and recognizethe power that each of us has to make a difference in a young person’slife. The character of a child is formed in the earliest years through the love and guidance of family members and other caring individuals. A par-ent, teacher, or mentor can help improve a child’s academic achieve-ment, encourage right choices, and help them to understand the impor-tance of serving a cause greater than self. Through USA Freedom Corps, my Administration is providing oppor- tunities for volunteers to work with children in schools, after-schoolprograms, and through community groups and organizations. By volun-teering, these adults set an example of service and good citizenship forour young people and provide youth with the stability and encourage-ment they need to achieve their dreams. My Administration has alsolaunched the Community Guide to Helping America’s Youth at helpingamericasyouth.gov. This web-based tool is part of the HelpingAmerica’s Youth initiative, led by First Lady Laura Bush, and assistscommunities in identifying ways to lend a hand to children in need.In addition, my Administration is working through No Child Left Be-hind and the American Competitiveness Initiative to ensure everychild has a quality education and the opportunity to succeed. By in-vesting in the lives of our young people, we can help develop theirpersonal character, teach them to be responsible citizens, and enablethem to realize their full potential. VerDate 11-MAY-2000 07:17 Jul 23, 2007 Jkt 059194 PO 00003 Frm 00064 Fmt 8087 Sfmt 8087 M:\STATUTES\PROCS\49194PRC.000 APPS06 PsN: APPS0 6

--- Page 1 ---
120 STAT. 3815 PROCLAMATION 8027—JUNE 2, 2006 NOW, THEREFORE, I, GEORGE W. BUSH, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim June 4, 2006, as National Child’sDay. I call upon citizens to observe this day with appropriate cere-monies and activities. I also urge all the people of the United Statesto take an active role in helping nurture the minds and character ofour Nation’s children. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of June, in the year of our Lord two thousand six, and of the Independ-ence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirtieth. GEORGE W. BUSH Proclamation 8027 of June 2, 2006 National Oceans Week, 2006 By the President of the United States of America A Proclamation During National Oceans Week, we recognize the importance of the oceans to our national heritage, economy, and security and reaffirm ourcommitment to protecting them through wise stewardship and sensiblemanagement. The magnificent beauty of the oceans is a blessing to our country and the world. The oceans also sustain an abundance of natural and histor-ical treasures, enable the transportation of vital goods, and providefood and recreation for millions of people. My Administration is work-ing with State, tribal, and local governments, the private sector, andinternational partners to foster more effective conservation of ouroceans, coasts, and Great Lakes resources and to advance the environ-mental, economic, and security interests of our Nation. On December 17, 2004, I established the Committee on Ocean Policy to implement the United States Ocean Action Plan. Through this plan,we are building an integrated ocean observing system, promoting oceaneducation, embarking on deep oceans research, supporting our mari-time transportation system, and enhancing our international leadershiprole in ocean science and policy. We are also advancing legislation tostrengthen the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, es-tablish a system of sustainable aquaculture, and maintain protectionsfor marine mammals. To fulfill my commitment to end overfishing, weare working with the Congress to build an improved, market-based sys-tem to better manage our fisheries and keep our commercial and rec-reational fishing industries strong. I appreciate all those who are dedicated to making the oceans, coasts, and Great Lakes cleaner, healthier, and more productive. By workingtogether, all Americans can help sustain the oceans for generations tocome. NOW, THEREFORE, I, GEORGE W. BUSH, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim June 4 through June 10, 2006,as National Oceans Week. I call upon the people of the United Statesto learn more about the vital role the oceans play in the life of ourcountry and how we can conserve their many natural treasures. I en- VerDate 11-MAY-2000 07:17 Jul 23, 2007 Jkt 059194 PO 00003 Frm 00065 Fmt 8087 Sfmt 8087 M:\STATUTES\PROCS\49194PRC.000 APPS06 PsN: APPS0 6