--- Page 0 ---
Aging Division Wyoming Department of Health Information and Education Bulletin Subject: Life of a Payment Life of a Payment during “Non Adjustment” Months No payments can be made without a completed signed Contract. One copy of the completed Contract is given to the Aging Division Fiscal Manager. Fiscal Manager enters the payment into the state WO LFS system. Each payment is printed out Each payment is signed by the Fiscal Manager Each payment is signed by the Aging Division Admini strator or Deputy Administrator After all parties have signed the payments, a copy of each payment is made. A hard copy of the each payment with an attached co mpleted Contract is sent to the Department of Health Fiscal office for final approv al. Department of Health Fiscal Office approves and sch edules payment to pay on the next run date. (NOTE: there are typically only two runs per week on Mondays and Thursdays. However, these dates change during end of month processing.) State Auditor’s Office will send payment via EFT or check based on the method chosen by the Contractor when added to the WOLFS system. Checks are mailed through the State Auditors Office after each run date All EFT transactions may take up to Three Business days to post to your bank account. The Aging Division does not have control of the time frame the EFT payments ar e posted to your account. Life of a Payment during “ Adjustment” Months The same process as above takes place with the fol lowing exceptions. a. Program Manager review the Quarterly Reports for th eir programs b. Letter are prepared by Program Managers for any err ors to the Fiscal or Program Reports c. Program Managers and Fiscal Manager review the Fina ncial Profit and Loss Reports for those Providers that are required to submit these r eports. d. Once the Fiscal Quarterly Report and Program Report are approved by the Program Manager, both parties schedule an appointment to si gn the approved Fiscal Quarterly Report. e. One copy of the approved Fiscal Quarterly Report is made f. The Fiscal Manager enters the payment into the stat e WOLFS payment. g. The remaining steps are the same as the above Numbe r 4 through 9

--- Page 1 ---
IMPORT ANT NOTES: If the vendor is new to the state WOLFS system, it will take additional time to get them added. Payment CANNOT be made until the Contractor ’s information is added to the WOLFS system. This is done by completing the Wolfs- 109a. The form can be found at the following website: http://sao.state.wy.us/Wolfs&Payroll/WOLFS_Forms/WO LFS-109a.pdf (NOTE: The Contractor can change their method of p ayment at any time from EFT to check or check to EFT by completing a WOLFS-109 and submi tting it to the Aging Division. This form is used if the Contractor is currently on the system, but is making changes such as Bank Information or changes their status of payment from a check to an EFT status. This form can be found the following website: http://sao.state.wy.us/Wolfs&Payroll/WOLFS_Forms/WO LFS-109b.pdf . Please allow up to 30 days for this change to be made after submitting th e form to the Aging Division. During adjustment months, each incorrect Fiscal and Program reports may delay your payment for the adjustment month as all documentati on must be reviewed each time a correction is made. All corrections made to your Fiscal Reports must ha ve written documentation to any changes made. Payments will be delayed until all r equired documentation is met. Please read your contract. The attachment page of your contract provides details of the payment process. Rev: 11-2008