--- Page 0 ---
Grant to Aid Youth Group Grant to Aid Youth Group The Daily Herald Reports Des Plaines Healthy Community Partnership Foundation today announced a $93,000 Drug-Free Communities matching grant was earned to support the work of the Maine Community Youth Assistance Foundation of Maine Township. The grant was one of 226 new grants totaling $21.9 million awarded today to community anti-drug coalitions across the country. These coalitions are comprised of a diverse cross-section of parents, youth, teachers, religious and fraternal organizations, health care and business professionals, law enforcement, the media, and community leaders. They work to prevent and reduce drug, alcohol, and tobacco use among youth. The Office of National Drug Control Policy administers the community anti-drug program in conjunction with the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. The Des Plaines Healthy Community Partnership Foundation is the fiscal agent for the Maine Community Youth Assistance Foundation The $93,000 award will assist the foundation to achieve its two goals of strengthening coalition effectiveness and reducing substance abuse among youth by implementing the following strategies: . Develop a multiyear risk prevention community action plan 1 / 2

--- Page 1 ---
Grant to Aid Youth Group . Develop effective community responses to youth alcohol, tobacco and drug use. . Strengthening coalition effectiveness by increasing the number of community sectors represented on the coalition and supporting existing partner staff to institute and or continue prevention/intervention programming. The foundation partnered with other community organizations whose focus is on healthy, safe and drug-free youth. Grant dollars will support East Maine School District 63's TLC after school program and Maine Township High School District 207's alternatives to suspension program. U.S. Rep. Jan Schakowsky took an active role in supporting the foundation's grant application to bring these resources to Maine Township. 2 / 2