--- Page 0 ---
HIV, Other STD, and Teen Pregnancy Prevention and North Carolina Students What i s the problem? The 2011 North Carolina Youth Risk Behavior Survey indicates that among high school students: Sexual Risk Behaviors • 49% ever had sexual intercourse. • 9% had sexual intercourse for the first time before age 13 years. • 17% had sexual intercourse with four or more persons during their life. • 35% had sexual intercourse with at least one person during the 3 months before the survey. • 46% did not use a condom during last sexual intercourse. (1) • — did n ot use birth control pills or Depo­Provera (or any injectable birth control), Nuva Ring (or any birth control ring), implanon (or any implant), or any IUD before last sexual intercourse. (1) • — w ere never taught in school about AIDS or HIV infection. Alc ohol and Other Drug Use • 2 5% drank alcohol or used drugs before last sexual intercourse. (1) • — used a needle to inject any illegal drug into their body one or more times during their life. What are the solutions? Better health education • More comprehensive health services • More supportive policies • More family involvement What is the status? The 2012 North Carolina School Health Profiles indicates that among high schools: Health Education • 17% required students to take 2 or more health education courses. • 75% had a health education curriculum that addresses all 8 national standards for health education. • 69% taught 9 key pregnancy, HIV, or other STD prevention topics in a required course. • 39% taught 4 key topics related to condom use in a required course. • 83% taught how to access valid and reliable health information, products, or services related to HIV, other STDs, and pregnancy in a required course. • 58% had a lead health education teacher who received professional development during the 2 years before the survey on HIV prevention. • 49% had a lead health education teacher who received professional development during the 2 years before the survey on pregnancy prevention. Health Services • 3 3% had a full­time registered nurse who provides health services to students at school. Su pportive Policies • 32% had a gay/straight alliance or similar club. • 5% provided curricula or supplementary materials and engaged in 5 practices related to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or questioning (LGBTQ) youth. Family Involvement • 27% provided parents and families health information to increase parent and family knowledge of HIV prevention, STD prevention, or teen pregnancy prevention. Among students who were currently sexually active. ­ Data not available. Where can I get more information? Visit www.cdc.gov/yrbss or call 800­CDC­INFO (800­232­4636).