--- Page 0 ---
Backyard Biosecurity 6Ways To Prevent Poultry Diseases Keep Your Distance. Restrict access to your property and your birds. Consider fencing off the area where you keep your birds and make a barrier area if possible. Allow only people who take care of your birds to come into contact with them. If visi- tors have birds of their own, do not let them near your birds. Game birds and migratory waterfowl should not have contact with your flock because theycan carry germs and diseases. Keep It Clean. Wear clean clothes, scrub your shoes with disinfectant, and wash your hands thoroughly before entering your bird area. Clean cages and change food and water daily. Clean and disinfect equip- ment that comes in contact with yourbirds or their droppings, including cages and tools. Remove manure before dis- infecting. Properly dispose of deadbirds.1 2 Don’t Haul Disease Home. Ifyou have been near other birds or bird owners, such as at a feed store, clean and disinfect car and truck tires, poultry cages, and equipment before going home. Have your birds been to afair or exhibition? Keep them separated from the rest of your flock for at least 2 weeks after the event. New birds shouldbe kept separate from your flock for at least 30 days. 3 Don’t Borrow Disease From Your Neighbor. Do not shar elawn and gar den equip - ment, tools, or poultry supplies with your neighbors or other bird owners. Ifyou do bring these items home, clean and disinfect them befor ethey r each your property. 4 Know the Warning Signs of Infectious BirdDiseases. •Sudden incr ease in bird deaths in your flock • Sneezing, gasping for air, coughing, and nasal dischar ge • Watery and green diarrhea •Lack of ener gy and poor appetite •Drop in egg pr oduction or soft- or thin-shelled misshapen eggs • Swelling around the eyes, neck, and head • Purple discoloration of the wattles, combs, and legs (AI) •Tremors, drooping wings, circling, twisting of the head and neck, or lack of movement (END) Early detection is impor tant to pr event the spread of disease.5 Report Sick Birds. Don’twait. If your bir ds are sick or dying, call your local cooperative exten - sion office, local veterinarian, the State Veterinarian, or U.S. Department ofAgricultur e(USDA) V eterinar yServices office to find out why .USDA operates a toll-free hotline ( 1–866–536–7593 )with veterinarians to help you. Ther eis no charge for this ser vice.6 You are the best protection your birds have. United States Department of Agriculture Animal and Plant Health Inspection ServiceUSDA is an equal oppor tunity provider and employer. Program Aid No.1764-C Issued May 2004