--- Page 0 ---
Antigo Daily Journal: Obey inspects the results of more funding for after-school programs ANTIGO DAILY JOURNAL Obey inspects the results of more funding for after-school programs April 5, 2008 For Congressman Dave Obey, Friday afternoon's visit to East Elementary School was an illustration of a few of the things he is campaigning for in Washington D.C. Congressman Dave Obey, flanked by after-school participants, meets the bully meter. Obey, who represents Wisconsin's Seventh District, which includes Antigo, visited the school for an update on the district's after school program. He secured $383,370 in federal funds last year for the Cooperatve Educational Service Agency No. 9 After-School Consortium of which 1 / 2

--- Page 1 ---
Antigo Daily Journal: Obey inspects the results of more funding for after-school programs Antigo is a member. But instead of a dry recap of facts and statistics, school officials let the students do the talking, and singing, and play-acting, sharing with the congressman everything from their newfound knowledge of Spanish to anti-bullying tactics before presenting him with a homemade bouquet of flowers. Obey, munching on a cookie and sipping some coffee, was clearly pleased. &quot;Research shows that when students have a place to go after school where they can study and be supervised by an adult, not only are they less likely to get into trouble, they also get a better education,&quot; he said. &quot;That's why we pushed for more funding for after-school centers in the budget and why I asked for the funds to help keep programs like this going in Wisconsin. I'm glad to be here today to see first hand how things are going here in Antigo.&quot; The Antigo after-school program is intended to provide a safe, healthy, enriching, supervised after-school environment for children in Antigo elementary schools. On average, about 100 students attend the program daily. The program is organized into four to six week sessions with a theme and varied activities during each session. Ongoing activities include homework assistance, tutoring, mentoring, physical fitness activities, field trips, and special monthly &quot;Family Fun Nights.'' &quot;There is nothing more important for the future of our children than a good education,&quot; Obey noted. &quot;Offering extra help with homework, advanced tutoring and an adult-supervised safe-haven free of trouble, after-school programs like this one help provide students a solid foundation that will help them for the rest of their lives.&quot; 2 / 2