--- Page 0 ---
363 Office of the Assistant Secretary, HUD § 906.15 § 906.9 Title restrictions and encum- brances on properties sold under a homeownership program. (a) If the property is subject to in- debtedness under the Annual Contribu-tions Contract (ACC), HUD will con-tinue to make any debt service con-tributions for which it is obligated under the ACC, and the property sold will not be subject to the encumbrance of that indebtedness. (b) Upon sale of a public housing unit to a public housing tenant or eligible family, or to a PRE operating the units as non-public housing, in accordance with the HUD-approved homeownership program, HUD will execute a release of the title restrictions prescribed by the ACC. Because the property will no longer be subject to the ACC after sale, it will cease to be eligible for public housing Operating Fund or Capital Fund payments. Subpart C—Purchaser Requirements § 906.11 Eligible purchasers. Entities that purchase units from the PHA for resale to low-income families (purchase and resale entities or PREs) and low-income families are eligible to purchase properties made available for sale under a PHA homeownership pro-gram. § 906.13 Right of first refusal. (a) In selling a public housing unit under a homeownership program, the PHA or PRE must initially offer the unit to the resident occupying the unit, if any, notwithstanding the re-quirements of §§906.15(a) and 906.15(c). (b) This program does not require the PHA, when selling a unit that is a non- public housing unit, to offer the unit for sale first to the current resident of the unit. § 906.15 Requirements applicable to a family purchasing a property under a homeownership program. (a) Low-income requirement. Except in the case of a PHA’s offer of first refusal to a resident occupying the unit under §906.13, a family purchasing a property under a PHA homeownership program must be a low-income family, as de-fined in section 3 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437a), at the time the contract to purchase the property is executed. (b) Principal residence requirement. The dwelling unit sold to an eligible family must be used as the principal residence of the family. (c) Financial capacity requirement. Eli- gibility must be limited to families who are capable of assuming the finan-cial obligations of homeownership, under minimum income standards for affordability, taking into account the unavailability of public housing oper-ating subsidies and modernization funds after conveyance of the property by the PHA. A homeownership program may, however, take account of any available subsidy from other sources. Under this affordability standard, an applicant must meet the following re-quirements: (1) Cost/income ratio. On an average monthly estimate, the amount of the applicant’s payments for mortgage principal and interest, plus insurance, real estate taxes, utilities, mainte-nance, and other regularly recurring homeownership costs (such as condo-minium, cooperative, or other home-ownership association fees) will not ex-ceed the sum of: (i) 35 percent of the applicant’s ad- justed income as defined in 24 CFR part 913; and (ii) Any subsidy that will be available for such payments; (2) Down payment requirement. Each family purchasing housing under a homeownership program must provide a down payment in connection with any loan for acquisition of the housing, in an amount determined by the PHA or PRE, in accordance with an ap-proved homeownership program. Ex-cept as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the PHA or PRE must per-mit the family to use grant amounts, gifts from relatives, contributions from private sources, and other similar amounts in making the down payment; (3) The family must use its own re- sources other than grants, gifts, con-tributions, or similar amounts, to con-tribute an amount of the down pay-ment that is not less than one percent of the purchase price of the housing. The PHA or PRE must maintain records that are verifiable by HUD VerDate May<04>2004 09:39 May 19, 2004 Jkt 203079 PO 00000 Frm 00363 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\203079T.XXX 203079T

--- Page 1 ---
364 24 CFR Ch. IX (4–1–04 Edition) § 906.17 through audits regarding the source of this one percent contribution. (d) Other requirements established by the PHA. A PHA may establish require- ments or limitations for families to purchase housing under a homeowner-ship program, including but not lim-ited to requirements or limitations re-garding: (1) Employment or participation in employment counseling or training ac-tivities; (2) Criminal activity; (3) Participation in homeownership counseling programs; and (4) Evidence of regular income. § 906.17 PHA handling of homeowner- ship applications. Families who are interested in pur- chasing a unit must submit applica-tions to the PHA or PRE for that spe-cific purpose, and those applications must be handled separately from appli-cations for other PHA programs. Appli-cation for homeownership must not af-fect an applicant’s place on any other PHA waiting list for rental units. § 906.19 Requirements applicable to a purchase and resale entity (PRE). (a) In general. In the case of a pur- chase of units for resale to low-income families by a PRE, the PHA must have an approved homeownership program that describes the use of a PRE to sell the units to low-income families with-in 5 years from the date of the PRE’s acquisition of the units. (b) PRE requirements. The PHA must demonstrate in its homeownership pro-gram that the PRE has the necessary legal capacity and administrative ca-pability to carry out its responsibil-ities under the program. The PHA’s homeownership program also must contain a written agreement (not re-quired to be submitted as part of the homeownership plan) that specifies the respective rights and obligations of the PHA and the PRE, and which includes: (1) Assurances that the PRE will comply with all provisions of the HUD- approved homeownership program; (2) Assurances that the PRE will be subject to a title restriction providing that the property must be resold or otherwise transferred only by convey-ance of individual dwellings to eligible families, in accordance with the HUD- approved homeownership program, or by reconveyance to the PHA, and that the property will not be encumbered by the PRE without the written consent of the PHA; (3) Protection against fraud or mis- use of funds or other property on the part of the PRE, its employees, and agents; (4) Assurances that the resale pro- ceeds will be used only for the purposes specified by the HUD-approved home-ownership program; (5) Limitation of the PRE’s adminis- trative and overhead costs, and of any compensation or profit that may be re-alized by the PRE, to amounts that are reasonable in relation to its respon-sibilities and risks; (6) Accountability to the PHA and residents for the recordkeeping, report-ing, and audit requirements of §906.33; (7) Assurances that the PRE will ad- minister its responsibilities under the plan on a nondiscriminatory basis, in accordance with the Fair Housing Act, its implementing regulations, and other applicable civil rights statutes and authorities, including the authori-ties cited in §5.105(a) of this title; and (8) Adequate legal remedies for the PHA and residents, in the event of the PRE’s failure to perform in accordance with the agreement. (c) Sale to low-income families. The re- quirement for a PRE to sell units under a homeownership program only to low-income families must be re-corded as a deed restriction at the time of purchase by the PRE. (d) Resale within five years. A PRE must agree that, with respect to any units it acquires under a homeowner-ship program under this part, it will transfer ownership to the PHA if the PRE fails to resell the unit to a low-in-come family within 5 years of the PRE’s acquisition of the unit. Subpart D—Program Administration § 906.23 Protections available to non- purchasing public housing resi-dents. (a) If a public housing resident does not exercise the right of first refusal under §906.13, and the PHA determines VerDate May<04>2004 09:39 May 19, 2004 Jkt 203079 PO 00000 Frm 00364 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\203079T.XXX 203079T