--- Page 0 ---
893 Federal Reserve System § 268.709 § 268.705 Employment. No qualified individual with a dis- ability shall, on the basis of a dis-ability, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the Board. The definitions, requirements and proce-dures of §268.203 of this part shall apply to discrimination in employment in federally conducted programs or activi-ties. § 268.706 Program accessibility: Dis- crimination prohibited. Except as otherwise provided in §268.707 of this subpart, no qualified in-dividual with a disability shall, be-cause the Board’s facilities are inacces-sible to or unusable by individuals with a disability, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimina-tion under any program or activity conducted by the Board. § 268.707 Program accessibility: Exist- ing facilities. (a) General. The Board shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with a disability. This paragraph (a) does not: (1) Necessarily require the Board to make each of its existing facilities ac- cessible to and usable by individuals with a disability; or (2) Require the Board to take any ac- tion that it can demonstrate would re-sult in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where the Board believes that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the Board has the burden of proving that compliance with this paragraph (a) would result in such al-terations or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alter-ations or burdens shall be made by the Board of Governors or their designee after considering all Board resources available for use in the funding and op-eration of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the Board shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that individ-uals with a disability receive the bene-fits and services of the program or ac-tivity. (b) Methods. The Board may comply with the requirements of this subpart H through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to individuals with a disability, home visits, delivery of service at al-ternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that re-sult in making its programs or activi-ties readily accessible to and usable by individuals with a disability. The Board is not required to make struc-tural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this sec-tion. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the Board shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified in-dividuals with a disability in the most integrated setting appropriate. (c) Time period for compliance. The Board shall comply with any obliga-tions established under this section as expeditiously as possible. § 268.708 Program accessibility: New construction and alterations. Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the Board shall be designed, constructed, or al-tered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with a dis-ability. § 268.709 Communications. (a) The Board shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communica-tion with applicants, participants, per-sonnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public. (1) The Board shall furnish appro- priate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with a disability an equal opportunity to participate in, VerDate Aug<31>2005 02:50 Jan 27, 2006 Jkt 208037 PO 00000 Frm 00903 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\208037.XXX 208037