--- Page 0 ---
ILLINOIS ECONOMIC RECOVERY COMMISSION GLOBAL MARKETS SUBCOMMITTEE MINUTES OF MEETING DATE: December 16, 2009 TIME: 4.30 pm – 6.30 pm LOCATION: 70 W Madison Street, Chicago, IL, Room 3400 Attendees C. Bernardini, G. Webb, D. Cradit, W. Miquelon, D. Whitley, G. Wass, J. Hoelzle, S. Joshi, M. Sorgman, I. Dumea Invited Guests/ Presenters: M. Gaudette, C. Haeni, L. Morrissey, E. Voyles, C. Zethmayr c.c. A. Rorke, J. Weisensee, J. Brodson, J. Reynolds Charles Bernardini opened the meeting by info rming the attendees that the agenda for the meeting is the presentations from three organi zations: Midwest U.S. – Japan Association, Switzerland Trade & Investment Commission and the Rockford Area Economic Development Council. Marie Gaudette, Executive Director, Midwest U.S.-Japan Association presented history of their organization, key activities of the group and offered the following key observations / recommendations:  Leadership of the Illinois Economic Development group should have business / industry executive background  State of Indiana did an excellent job in getting Honda plant to Indiana  Health Care should be the key focus in attracting new business opportunities from Japan to Illinois  Need to target specific trade shows e.g. Bio 2010  Obtain a copy of A.T. Kearney study done 3-4 years ago Claudine M. Haeni, Trade Commissioner, Switzerland Trade & Investment Promotion summarized their group’s key role and activities in the 12 mid-west states. She highlighted their role in the potential High Speed Rail project for the Midwest area. She also expressed desire to receive monthly / quarterly statistics on State of Illinois’ economic data on a routine basis. She high lighted Denver Metro Economic Development Group as ‘best of class’ in providing this type of information on a timely basis. Eric D. Voyles, Vice President, Nationa l Business Development, Rockford Area Economic Development Council made a formal presentation on their role, activities and key accomplishments. Mayor Lawrence J. Mo rrissey provided in-depth commentary on his experience in working with RAEDC a nd highlighted their success in attracting business from China and Sweden. Copies of Mr . Voyles presentation were provided to the attendees. Satish V. Joshi