--- Page 0 ---
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday, Sept. 23, 2008 3 indicted for distributing cocaine Three men were indicted today in unrelated cases involving the distribution of cocaine in the Twin Cities area. In the first case, Dwight David Shinaul, 28, Brooklyn Park, was charged with one count of conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute cocaine and one count of possession with intent to distribute cocaine. He was indicted Sept. 23 in Minneapolis. Shinaul’s indictment alleges that from Jan. 1, 2007, through Aug. 26, 2008, he knowingly and intentionally conspired with others to dist ribute and possess with intent to distribute 5 or more kilograms of cocaine, and that on Aug. 26, Shinaul did knowingly and intentionally possesswith the intent to distribute 500 or more grams of cocaine. According to a Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) affidavit, authorities learned in February 2008 that Shinaul was the source for a Minneapolis-area cocaine dealer. On Aug. 26, officers attempted to stop Shinaul’s vehicle in Minneapolis following a drug transaction, but Shinaul accelerated his vehicle and a high-speed chase ensued for approximately.4 miles from the intersection of Third and Washington avenues to the Minnesota Twins Stadiumconstruction site. After nearly striking a pedestrian and crashing into some constructionequipment, Shinaul stopped, exited the vehicle and fled on foot. During the foot chase, officers observed Shinaul removing plastic bags from his pants pocket and throwing them onto the ground. The recovered bags contained approximately 79.7grams of cocaine. When police caught Shinaul, he resisted arrest and attempted to fight with theofficers. After Shinaul was subdued and arrested, police recovered approximately $8,440 in cashfrom Shinaul’s pocket. If convicted, Shinaul faces a potential maximum penalty of life in prison. All sentences are determined by a federal district court judge. This case is the result of an investigation by theDEA, the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force, the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division, and the Plymouth Police Department. It is being prosecuted byUnited States Department of Justice United States Attorney’s Office District of Minnesota News ReleaseFrank J. Magill, United States Attorney David Anderson, Public Affairs Specialist (612) 664-5684; cell: (612) 730-2251

--- Page 1 ---
Assistant United States Attorney Steven L. Schleicher. In the second case, two men from Phoenix, Ariz., were each indicted on one count of conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute cocaine. Enrique Araque Estrada, 52, and Rene Manuel Sanchez, 46, were both charged Sept. 23 in Minneapolis. Their indictment alleges that from September 2006 through March 2007, the two men knowingly and intentionally conspired with each other and others to distribute and possess withintent to distribute 5 or more kilograms of cocaine. If convicted, Estrada and Sanchez each face a potential maximum penalty of life in prison. All sentences are determined by a federal district court judge. This case is the result of aninvestigation by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Nebraska State Patrol, and the Headwaters Safe Trails Task For ce. It is also being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Schleicher. –30– An indictment is a determination by a grand jury that th ere is probable cause to believe that offenses have been committed by a defendant. A defendant, of course, is presum ed innocent until he or she pleads guilty or is proven guilty at trial.