--- Page 0 ---
231 Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA § 91.33 § 91.30 Maintenance and retention of copies of certificates or analysis re-ports. (a) At least one copy of each certifi- cate or analysis report shall be filed in the laboratory for a period of not less than 3 years either from the date of issuance of the document, from the date of voiding a certificate, or from the date last payment is made by the applicant for a reported laboratory de-termination, whichever is later. (b) Whenever any document, because of its condition, becomes unsuitable for its intended or continued use, the lab-oratory personnel shall make a copy of the original document. (c) True copies shall be retained as photocopies, microfilm, microfiche, or other accurate reproductions and dura-ble forms of the original document. Where reduction techniques, such as microfilming are used, suitable reader and photocopying equipment shall be readily available. Such reproductions shall be treated and considered for all purposes as though they were the origi-nal documents. (d) All documents required to be maintained under this part shall be kept confidential and shall be disclosed only to the applicants or other persons with the applicants’ knowledge and permission. Only such information as the Administrator deems relevant shall be disclosed to the public without the applicants’ permission, and then, only in a suit or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or on the re-quest, of the Administrator, or to which the Administrator or any other officer of the United States is a party. Subpart H—Appeal of Laboratory Services § 91.31 When an appeal of a laboratory service may be requested. (a) An application for an appeal of a laboratory service may be made by any interested party who is dissatisfied with the results of an analysis as stat-ed in a certificate or laboratory report, if the lot of the commodity can be posi-tively identified by the laboratory service as the lot from which originally drawn samples were previously ana-lyzed. (b) An application for an appeal of a laboratory service shall be made within thirty (30) days following the day on which the previous analysis was per-formed. However, upon approval by the Deputy Administrator, the filing time for an appeal application may be ex-tended. [58 FR 42415, Aug. 9, 1993, as amended at 65 FR 64311, Oct. 26, 2000] § 91.32 Where to file for an appeal of a laboratory service and information required. (a) Application for an appeal of a lab- oratory service may be filed with the supervisor in the office or the director of the laboratory facility that issued the certificate or laboratory report on which the appeal analysis covering the commodity product is requested. (b) The application for an appeal of a laboratory service shall state the loca-tion of the lot of the commodity prod-uct and the reasons for the appeal; and date and serial number of the certifi-cate covering the laboratory service of the commodity product on which the appeal is requested. In addition, such application shall be accompanied by the original and all available copies of the certificate or laboratory report. (c) Application for an appeal of a lab- oratory service may be made orally (in person or by telephone), in writing, by e-mail, by facsimile, or by telegraph. If made orally, written confirmation shall be made promptly. [65 FR 64311, Oct. 26, 2000] § 91.33 When an application for an ap- peal of a laboratory service may be withdrawn. An application for an appeal of a lab- oratory service may be withdrawn by the applicant at any time before the appealed laboratory service is per-formed; Provided, That, the applicant shall pay, at the hourly rate prescribed in §91.37, for the time incurred by the laboratory personnel, any travel, tele-phone, telegraph, or other expenses which have been incurred by the lab-oratory service in connection with such application. VerDate Aug<04>2004 11:48 Jan 18, 2005 Jkt 205014 PO 00000 Frm 00231 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\205014T.XXX 205014T