--- Page 0 ---
6412 CFR Ch. I (1±1±99 Edition) §5.10 data, supplementary information, and information submitted by interested persons, to the extent that those docu- ments have not been afforded confiden- tial treatment. Applicants and other interested persons may request that confidential treatment be afforded in- formation submitted to the OCC pursu- ant to paragraph (c) of this section. (c) Confidential treatment. The appli- cant or an interested person submit- ting information may request that spe- cific information be treated as con- fidential under the Freedom of Infor- mation Act, 5 U.S.C. 552 ( see 12 CFR 12(b)). A submitter should draft its re- quest for confidential treatment nar- rowly to extend only to those portions of a document it considers to be con- fidential. If a submitter requests con- fidential treatment for information that the OCC does not consider to be confidential, the OCC may include that information in the public file after pro- viding notice to the submitter. More- over, at its own initiative, the OCC may determine that certain informa- tion should be treated as confidential and withhold that information from the public file. A person requesting in- formation withheld from the public file should submit the request to the Dis- closure Officer, Communications Divi- sion, under the procedures described in 12 CFR part 4, subpart B. That request may be subject to the predisclosure no- tice procedures of 12 CFR 4.16. §5.10 Comments. (a) Submission of comments. During the comment period, any person may sub- mit written comments on a filing to the appropriate district office. (b) Comment periodÐ (1) General. Un- less otherwise stated, the comment pe- riod is 30 days after publication of the public notice required by § 5.8(a). (2) Extension. The OCC may extend the comment period if: (i) The applicant fails to file all re- quired publicly available information on a timely basis to permit review by interested persons or makes a request for confidential treatment not granted by the OCC that delays the public availability of that information; (ii) Any person requesting an exten- sion of time satisfactorily dem- onstrates to the OCC that additionaltime is necessary to develop factual in- formation that the OCC determines is necessary to consider the application; or (iii) The OCC determines that other extenuating circumstances exist. (3) Applicant response. The OCC may give the applicant an opportunity to respond to comments received. §5.11 Hearings and other meetings. (a) Hearing requests. Prior to the end of the comment period, any person may submit to the appropriate district of- fice a written request for a hearing on a filing. The request must describe the nature of the issues or facts to be pre- sented and the reasons why written submissions would be insufficient to make an adequate presentation of those issues or facts to the OCC. A per- son requesting a hearing shall simulta- neously submit a copy of the request to the applicant. (b) Action on a hearing request. The OCC may grant or deny a request for a hearing and may limit the issues to those it deems relevant or material. The OCC generally grants a hearing re- quest only if the OCC determines that written submissions would be insuffi- cient or that a hearing would otherwise benefit the decisionmaking process. The OCC also may order a hearing if it concludes that a hearing would be in the public interest. (c) Denial of a hearing request. If the OCC denies a hearing request, it shall notify the person requesting the hear- ing of the reason for the denial. (d) OCC procedures prior to the hear- ingÐ (1) Notice of Hearing. The OCC issues a Notice of Hearing if it grants a request for a hearing or orders a hear- ing because it is in the public interest. The OCC sends a copy of the Notice of Hearing to the applicant, to the person requesting the hearing, and anyone else requesting a copy. The Notice of Hearing states the subject and date of the filing, the time and place of the hearing, and the issues to be addressed. (2) Presiding officer. The OCC appoints a presiding officer to conduct the hear- ing. The presiding officer is responsible for all procedural questions not gov- erned by this section. VerDate 12<JAN>99 14:43 Jan 27, 1999 Jkt 183033 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\183033T.XXX pfrm08 PsN: 183033T