--- Page 0 ---
Vehicle Rental Frequently Asked Questions How does the Car Rental Program work? Through a joint agreement with the Western States Contracting Alliance, the State has s ecured discounted, contract rates with Enterprise Rent a Car, National Car Rental (Price Agreement No 9950) and Hertz Rent a Car (Price Agreement No. 9949). The Price Agreement’s contains the account code that must be give n to the reservation clerks in order to guarantee the state rates. Enterprise, Hertz and National has provided our employees a variety of payment options. Note: When renting a car from Enterprise, Hertz or Natio nal, be sure to inform them of the State’s Corporate Number. This number will give the Enterprise, Hertz or National location you are renting from all of the information related to the States contract pertaining to rental rates, insurance requirements and other information. No non-state employees may rent vehicles using these agreements. Who can rent and operate vehicles under the Stat e Price Agreements for vehicle rental services? Any State Employee or Agent of the State may operate the vehicles. There is sometimes confusion whether or not non-state employees can operate the vehicles provided under the Enterprise/National and Hertz Price Agreements. When ever a vehicle is rented by the st ate, that rental vehicle fa lls under the same rules and statutes that apply to state owne d vehicles. They are as follows: Agent means: A person or legal entity appointed in writing by a State agency to perform specific work. An agent is not an independent contractor. Agents, paid or unpaid, are subject to the direction and control of the agency. An agency may not call people “agents” for the primary purpose of justifying their transportation in a State vehicle. Employee means: A person employed by the State of Oregon to do St ate business for whom the State withholds income tax, provides workers compensation coverage, and pays the workers’ compensation hour-tax. Under this definition, workers provided by a temporary employment services agency and Department of Corrections inmates are not employees. Vehicle use and storage: No person shall drive, operate or use, authorize or permit any person to drive, operate or use any motor vehicle as defined in ORS 283.305 for any purpose except for Official State business as defined in ORS 283.305 and by the rules of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services. In other words, when reserving a vehicle that is to be operated by a non-state employee, you need to ask the question whether that person would be allowed to oper ate a state owned vehicle as an agent or employee as defined above. If the answer is no, then that person should NOT be driving a vehicle under these price agreements. The Price Ag reements state that the "traveler" is a person who is authorized to travel by a participant , however, per ORS 283.305, the Traveler must fall into either the Agent or Employee definition. No other individuals are authorized to operate the vehicles under our Price Agr eements with Enterprise/National and Hertz. The primary reason is the lia bility involved for the person driving the vehicle, the Contractor and the State. Our Price Agreements include full damage and liability in surance coverage and if a person was involved in an accident operating a rental vehicle, and it was disc overed that the person was not a state employee or agent of the state, the state could ultimately end up being responsible for a non-state employee or non-state agent accident. Is it mandatory that I use the Car rental program? Yes. If you are in one of Enterprise, Hertz or National cities, you must use the program. If you are in a city and there is no Enterprise, Hertz or National location there, you may use another provider; just remember to purchase the insurance when renting from another car rental company. Why do I need a credit card when renting a car? The car rental companies, nationwide, require this of ALL customers. This is for their protection when re nting a car to an individual. However, Enterprise, Hertz or National will provide agencies that have a documented need with agency direct billing accounts.

--- Page 1 ---
All charges are accumulated and billed to the agency’s account. In this case, a credit card will not be required as Enterprise, Hertz or National has the agency’s account information on file. Do I need to buy the extra in surance when renting a car? NO. Enterprise, Hertz or National contract covers ALL damage occurred while using the car rental contract. Also, the State’s insurance will cover any leased or rented vehicle operated by Stat e Employees while on official business. What is the insurance coverage for re nting cars in Foreign Countries? The Insurance coverage the State of Oregon provides for car re ntals in foreign countries varies from country to country. Please call DAS Risk Management at (503) 378-5515 to verify the type of coverage's that are available for the countries you are traveling to and to determine if you will need to purchase additional insurance from the car rental company. What is the mileage limit under the Car rental program? Unlimited miles although you must pickup and drop off the car at the same locati on. Usually the airport you flew into. What if I need to drop the car off at a di fferent location? You can do a one way rental program, but you will be charged a per mileage charge from the orig in point to the destination. There are select cities where no one-way charges are provided, please review the contract for these cities. A 7 day advanced reservation is required to do this. It is critical that you get the 7 day reservation in, it will reduce the per mileage fee between the two locations. Do I need to be over 25 to rent a Car? NO The State contact allows drivers 18 and older to rent a vehicle. Car Rental Confirmation Numbers. It is recommended that you take the Car Rental Confirmation Number with you when you are going to pick up th e rental. This will expedite the rental process. Please walk around vehicle befo re departing from rental location . If there are any marks/scratches/damage on vehicle please bring to the counters attention and have them sign off on it. I need to rent a car, who do I call to make a reservation? You can either call Enterprise, Hertz or National or the States Travel Contractor to make the reservation. Updated 04/06/2010