--- Page 0 ---
381 Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyard Admin. (FGIS), USDA § 800.98 weight of the portion that is unloaded and (ii) the following statement: ‘‘Part- lot: The net weight stated herein re-flects a partial unload.’’ (d) Certification of shiplot grain —(1) Basic requirement. The certificate shall show (i) if applicable, a statement that the grain has been loaded aboard with other grain, (ii) the official weight, (iii) the stowage or other identification of the grain, and (iv) other information required by the regulations and the in-structions. (2) Common stowage. (i) Without sepa- ration. If bulk grain is offered for weighing as it is being loaded aboard a ship and is loaded without separation in a stowage area with other grain or another commodity, the weight certifi-cate for the grain in each lot shall show that the lot was loaded aboard with other grain or another commodity without separation and the relative lo-cation of the grain. (ii) With separation. If separations are laid between adjacent lots, the weight certificates shall show the kind of ma-terial used in the separations and the location of the separations in relation to each lot. (iii) Exception. The common stowage requirements of this paragraph shall not be applicable to the first lot in a stowage area unless a second lot has been loaded, in whole or in part, in the stowage area before issuing the official weight certificate for the first lot. (3) Official mark. If the grain is offi- cially weighed in a reasonably contin-uous operation, upon request by the ap-plicant, the following statement may be shown on the weight certificate: ‘‘Loaded under continuous official weighing.’’ [52 FR 6496, Mar. 4, 1987] § 800.98 Weighing grain in combined lots. (a) General. The weighing of bulk or sacked grain loaded aboard, or being loaded aboard, or unloaded from two or more carriers as a combined lot shall be conducted according to this section and the instructions. (b) Weighing procedure. (1) Single lot weighing. Single lots of grain that are to be weighed as a combined lot shall be weighed in one location. The grain loaded into or unloaded from each car-rier must be weighed in accordance with procedures prescribed in the in-structions. In the case of sacked grain, a representative weight sample shall be obtained from the grain in each carrier unless otherwise specified in the in- structions. (2) Recertification. Grain that has been weighed and certificated as two or more single lots may be recertificated as a combined lot provided that (i) the grain in each single lot has been weighed in one location, (ii) the origi-nal weight certificates issued for the single lots have been or will be surren-dered to the appropriate agency or field office, (iii) the official personnel who performed the weighing service for the single lots and the official personnel who are to recertificate the grain as a combined lot determine that the weight of the grain in the lots has not since changed and, in the case of sacked grain, that the weight samples used as a basis for weighing the single lots were representative at the time of the weighing. (3) Grain uniform in quality. An appli- cant may request that grain be weighed and certificated as a combined lot whether or not the grain is uniform in quality for the purpose of inspection under the Act. (c) Certification procedures —(1) Gen- eral. Each certificate for a combined- lot Class X or Class Y weighing service shall show the identification for the ‘‘Combined lot’’ or, at the request of the applicant, the identification of each carrier in the combined lot. The identification and any seal information for the carriers may be shown on the reverse side of the weight certificate, provided the statement ‘‘See reverse side’’ is shown on the face of the cer-tificate in the space provided for re-marks. (2) Recertification. If a request for a combined-lot Class X or Class Y weigh-ing service is filed after the grain in the single lots has been weighed and certificated, the combined-lot weighing certificate shall show (i) the date of weighing the grain in the combined lot (if the single lots were weighed on dif-ferent dates, the latest of the dates shall be shown); (ii) a serial number, other than the serial numbers of the VerDate Aug<31>2005 09:47 Mar 05, 2008 Jkt 214018 PO 00000 Frm 00391 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\214018.XXX 214018rfrederick on PROD1PC67 with CFR

--- Page 1 ---
382 7 CFR Ch. VIII (1–1–08 Edition) § 800.99 weight certificates that are to be su- perseded; (iii) the name of the elevator from which or into which the grain in the combined lot was loaded or un-loaded; (iv) a statement showing the weight of the grain in the combined lot; (v) a completed statement showing the identification of any superseded certificate as follows: ‘‘This combined- lot certificate supersedes certificate Nos. ll, dated ll; and (vi) if at the time of issuing the combined-lot weight certificate the superseded cer-tificates are not in the custody of the agency or field office, the statement ‘‘The superseded certificates identified herein have not been surrendered’’ shall be clearly shown, in the space provided for remarks, beneath the statement identifying the superseded certificates. If the superseded certifi-cates are in the custody of the agency or field office, the superseded certifi-cates shall be clearly marked ‘‘Void.’’ (3) Part lot. If a part of a combined lot of grain in inbound carriers is unloaded and a part is left in the carriers, the grain that is unloaded shall be certifi-cated in accordance with the provisions in §800.97(c)(2). (4) Official mark. When grain is weighed as a combined lot in one con-tinuous operation, upon request by the applicant, the following statement shall be shown on the weight certifi-cate: ‘‘Loaded under continuous official weighing,’’ or ‘‘Loaded under contin-uous official inspection and weighing.’’ (5) Further combining. After a com- bined-lot weight certificate has been issued, there shall be no further com-bining and no dividing of the certifi-cate. (6) Limitations. No combined-lot weight certificate shall be issued (i) for any weighing service other than as de-scribed in this section or (ii) which shows a weight of grain different from the total of the combined single lot. [52 FR 6496, Mar. 4, 1987] § 800.99 Checkweighing sacked grain. (a) General. Each checkweighing serv- ice performed on a lot of sacked grain to determine the weight of the grain shall be made on the basis of one or more official weight samples obtained from the grain by official personnel ac-cording to this section and procedures prescribed in the instructions. (b) Representative sample. No official weight sample shall be considered to be representative of a lot of sacked grain unless the sample is of the size pre-scribed in the instructions and has been obtained and weighed according to the procedures prescribed in the in-structions. (c) Protecting samples and data. Offi- cial personnel and other employees of an agency or the Service shall protect official weight samples and data from manipulation, substitution, and im-proper and careless handling which might deprive the samples and sample data of their representativeness. (d) Restriction on weighing. No agency shall weigh any lot of sacked grain un-less at the time of obtaining the offi-cial weight sample the grain from which the sample was obtained was lo-cated within the area of responsibility assigned to the agency, except as oth-erwise provided for in §800.117, or on a case-by-case basis as determined by the Administrator. (e) Equipment and labor. Each appli- cant for weighing services shall provide necessary labor for obtaining official weight samples and place the samples in a position for weighing and shall supply suitable weighing equipment ap-proved by the Service, pursuant to the regulations and the instructions. (f) Disposition of official weight sam- ples. In weighing sacked grain in lots, the grain in the official weight samples shall be returned to the lots from which the samples were obtained. (g) Provisions by kinds of service —(1) ‘‘IN’’ movements. Each checkweighing on an ‘‘IN’’ movement of sacked grain shall be based on an official weight sample obtained while the grain is at rest in the carrier or during unloading, in accordance with procedures pre-scribed in the instructions. (2) ‘‘OUT’’ movements (export). Each checkweighing of sacked export grain shall be based on an official weight sample obtained as the grain is being loaded aboard the final carrier, as the grain is being sacked, or while the grain is at rest in a warehouse or hold-ing facility, in accordance with proce-dures prescribed in the instructions. VerDate Aug<31>2005 09:47 Mar 05, 2008 Jkt 214018 PO 00000 Frm 00392 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\214018.XXX 214018rfrederick on PROD1PC67 with CFR