--- Page 0 ---
Pence Discusses "A Pledge to America" on Fox and Friends U.S. Congressman Mike Pence talked about the governing agenda that House Republicans proposed today: Excerpts: “A Pledge to America is going to lay out our agenda for what we’d like to see this congress right now do to get spending under control, to get this economy moving again, to protect our nation, to battle against the massive expansion of government that’s been under way, and to get us back to the ideals and the values of the broad mainstream of the American people.” On How the American People Drove this Governing Agenda: “I think that the Tea Party movement and the people who’ve attended town hall meetings over the last year-and-a-half have sent a deafening message to Washington, D.C. that enough is enough. They want to see us get back to the practice of fiscal responsibility, personal responsibility and government reform. They want to see us get government spending under control and get this economy moving again, and they want to see us do all of that in a way that’s grounded in the freedom and limited government traditions of this country. So yes, this is a big, big hat tip to all the American people that are standing up and saying we can do better.” On the Importance of Social Issues in A Pledge to America: 1 / 2

--- Page 1 ---
Pence Discusses "A Pledge to America" on Fox and Friends “First and foremost what they’re going to see in the Pledge to America today, which was not in the original Contract with America, is a statement about the sanctity of life and a statement about traditional marriage. And I think that’s an important accomplishment for everyone in this country that cherishes the common values of our country. “I think it was important that Republicans make an affirmative statement in favor of traditional marriage in the Pledge to America. We’ve done that. But don’t miss the fact too, that in the Pledge to America today the American people will see that Republicans are prepared to commit to deny all public funding for abortion at home and abroad. And we will work to make that a government-wide ban. And so, different from the original Contract with America – yes, we deal with spending, with jobs, with government reform, with security – but we also make a strong affirmation to the broad mainstream traditional values that really make this country great.” 2 / 2