--- Page 0 ---
Alabama Medicaid Agency (AMA) RFP # 2010-HIE – Management Resources-01 RFP Title: HIE Management Resources QUESTIONS: General Is this work currently being performed by another organization or by AMA? No What is the value of the contract? The Agency has not placed a value on this contract. What is the current process for bidders to identify and AMA to protect proprietary information? State contracts and supporting documentation are generally considered public documents. The proposal should specifically and clearly identify on each page any information deemed proprietary or confidential. The Agency will protect such information to the extent allowed by law. If it appears that release of the information is legally required, the Agency will notify the company that submitted the information prior to release. What is AMA’s expectation for the contractor’s hours of work? As this RFP is for contracted services, the Alabama Medicaid Agency does not seek to impose on the Contractor’s employee agreement regardi ng hours per week; however, the contract is expected to involve two full-time Project Managers, with each manager expected to be physically present at least 24 hours per week at the Alabama Medicaid Agency or designated location (i.e., national, regional or state meeting.) Does the state prefer that the business and technical proposal be submitted together or in separate binders under separate covers? The proposals should be submitted together. Please refer to Section VII, Paragraph M and to Appendix A for information regarding submission of proposals. Will additional points in the scoring of the proposals be given to those organizations who are Alabama based? As is the case in other states. No, please refer to Section VIII, Paragraph D for a description of the scoring. Please describe AMA’s expected per formance measures for each position. As this RFP is for contracted services, the Alabama Medicaid Agency does not seek to impose on the Contractor’s employee agreement regarding performance measures. As part of the HIT Office operations, Project Managers should expect to receive direction/guidance regarding the projects from the HIT Coordinator or other HIT management staff. Such direction and/or guidance would be given via verbal or written communication. Feedback will be provided to successful Contractor regarding the project team’s performance and will outline to the Contractor the Agency’s expectations regarding professional performance. Will web interface be available for utilization by these positions to perform the required work when not on-site at the AMA office? No. At any time during the contract period, will these positions transition from a contractor to state positions? This is not an anticipated occurrence. Project Manager Requirements – would y ears of experience managing similar work be accepted in lieu of an undergraduate degree? No. Will AMA consider contracting with a QIO or QIO-like entity if it is able to recoup federal dollars for this program? The funds for this RFP are Federal funds and not available for such matching. Will the new State HIT Coordinator be a state employee or a contractor? The new State HIT Coordinator has been named for the duration of Governor Riley’s term and is a state employee.

--- Page 1 ---
Describe the hours/days in which the contractor will have access to AMA offices. 24-hour access Explain “contractor will be responsible for trav el costs”. Does this mean to/from AMA office, travel to work with the REC, travel to meetings, both in-state and out of state? Is this ALL travel? For pricing purposes, more detail is necessary. Please refer to Section II, Paragraph E, Item 4 – “Travel costs will be the responsibility of the Contractor . Travel can be expected to consist of two national trips per year and at least two in-state trips per month, by each manager.” What “conflict of interest” standards will be applied when considering/selecting a contractor for this work? Please elaborate on this question. Meaningful Use Program Manager Responsibilities Will the “system” described in the MU program manager’s list of responsibilities be based on federal, AMA or the HIE Advisory Commission guidelines? The system to be built is, of course, subject to federal regulations as well as state laws, where applicable. As the system is implemented and the payment incentive program is developed and implemented, input will be gleaned from HIT management staff as well as the HIE Advisory Commission. What type of software does AMA expect this “system” to be written? This position will not be required to write or evaluate code so this question is not applicable to the RFP. Describe the procurement activities this position will need to perform. Procurement activities will be performed as necessary to implement and maintain the payment incentive program. State procurement laws will apply to any procurement activities (for example, an ITB or RFP.) Provide details on the expectation of identifying grant opportunities and other funding sources. Part of the Scope of Work (Section II) delineates the tasks to identify grant opportunities and other sources of funding as related to Meaningful Use and HIE. It would be expected that the successful contractor would bring these opportunities to the attention of the HIT Coordinator and HIT management staff as they arise. Provide additional information on what is meant by “MMIS or related systems”. The MMIS is the Medicaid Management Information System currently used to provide information system support to the Agency. Related systems would be other IT Claims processing systems. HIE Operations Project Manager Responsibilities Provide the technical infrastructure for this project. We are unclear regarding this item – there does not appear to be a question. Provide details on “RFP” development. Will it be based on federal/state guidelines or industry standards? All will apply. Provide details on the expectation of identifying grant opportunities and other funding sources. Part of the Scope of Work (Section II) delineates the tasks to identify grant opportunities and other sources of funding as related to Meaningful Use and HIE. It would be expected that the successful contractor would bring these opportunities to the attention of the HIT Coordinator and HIT management staff as they arise.