--- Page 0 ---
Walz Praises 30 Jobs Created in Waseca Through ARRA and Federal Loan Funds Says improvements to wastewater treatment system necessary for community growth Waseca, MN – Today, Congressman Walz toured two Waseca projects including a project to install new sewer pipelines and a new wastewater sewer treatment plant. The two projects cost a total of $16.1 million, $6 million of which came from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). “I toured the construction in Waseca today to see firsthand how federal tax dollars granted through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act are being spent,” said Walz. “I’m pleased to report that Waseca has taken the funding and combined with loan dollars, has created 30 construction jobs. Additionally, this project is important to residents and businesses because it will curtail the costly sewer backups that used to result from the outdated sewer system. ” “Revitalizing our infrastructure is critical to future economic growth in our region and this sewer and wastewater treatment upgrade will help make those opportunities available to Waseca. Also, by upgrading the system, Waseca will be able to decrease drastically the number of sewer backups into the lake, improving the quality of life for the residents and tourists who enjoy using the lake,” concluded Walz. 1 / 2

--- Page 1 ---
Walz Praises 30 Jobs Created in Waseca Through ARRA and Federal Loan Funds “I am pleased that Congressman Walz is coming to Waseca to see the upgrades we’re making to our aging wastewater infrastructure and see firsthand the quality jobs being created in our area.” said Mayor Roy Srp. “The Congressman’s work on the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in Congress helped our community secure $6 million in funding for this project which has created 30 jobs. We all know that this money churns in our local economy providing benefits to our local materials providers, hardware stores, gas stations, restaurants and main street shops.” The pipe work is 75% complete and is expected to be finished by the end of 2009. The sewer treatment plant will be completed by August 2011. The City of Waseca received $6 million in ARRA principle forgiveness and a $9.8 million dollar loan from the PFA for 20 years at 2.63% interest. The loan funding for the project was put together through the Minnesota Public Facilities Authority’s Clean Water Revolving Fund. This fund receives a regular appropriation from the federal government, however, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act allowed them to increase their investment in Minnesota community wastewater and drinking water systems by almost 400 percent. Walz was escorted to the construction today by Waseca Mayor Roy Srp, Water and Wastewater Sewer Superintendent Carl Sunnonberg and Ray LaFond of Bolton & Menk. -30- 2 / 2