--- Page 0 ---
REVISED REVISED REVISED REVISED REVISED REVISED ST A TEMENT OF PURPOSE RS19552 This bill creates an emer gency surchar ge to be paid by persons who commit crimes and infractions. The surchar ge would enable the Judicial Branch, during the current ﬁnancial crisis, to continue to fulﬁll its constitutional responsibilities and to provide services that beneﬁt the people of the State of Idaho and help to reduce the burden on the state budget. Each person who is found guilty or pleads guilty to a criminal of fense or infraction, committed between April 15, 2010, and June 30, 2013, would pay a $20 fee for each of fense or infraction. Eighty percent of the fees collected would be deposited in the Drug Court, Mental Health Court and Family Court Services Fund, and twenty percent would be deposited in the Idaho Statewide T rial Court Automated Records System (IST ARS) Fund. The Judicial Branch has participated fully in the budget holdbacks and has searched for innovative ways to provide court services more ef ﬁciently . Further cuts would gravely impair ef forts to provide Idaho’ s citizens the justice to which they are constitutionally entitled, and to continue such beneﬁcial programs as drug courts and mental health courts. T o prevent these consequences, the Judicial Branch proposes the adoption of court costs that will be dedicated to the needs of the courts, that will be paid by users of the courts who have committed of fenses, and that will enable the courts to keep their doors open and to continue to operate the programs that are more necessary than ever during these challenging times. The emer gency surchar ge will provide approximately an additional $4.1 million to the dedicated funds, relieving the pressure on general fund dollars. The funds raised through the emer gency surchar ge will be used solely to continue court operations and to fund needed services and programs as provided by Idaho Code §§ 1­1623 and 1­1625. This bill includes an emer gency clause that will permit the application of the emer gency surchar ge to crimes and infractions occurring on or after April 15, It also provides, through what amounts to a sunset provision, that the emer gency surchar ge will not apply to of fenses committed after June 30, This will permit further review over the next three years of the ﬁnancial outlook and the needs of the Judicial Branch. FISCAL NOTE Based on ﬁgures from calendar year 2009 and expected collection rates, it is estimated that the emer gency surchar ge will generate $4,121,400 annually . Of this amount, $3,297,100 will be deposited in the Drug Court, Mental Health Court and Family Court Services Fund, and $824,300 in the IST ARS Fund. Contact: Statement of Purpose / Fiscal Note H 524 REVISED REVISED REVISED REVISED REVISED REVISED

--- Page 1 ---
REVISED REVISED REVISED REVISED REVISED REVISED Name: Patricia T obias Ofﬁce: Administrative Director of the Courts Phone: (208) 334­2246 Statement of Purpose / Fiscal Note H 524 REVISED REVISED REVISED REVISED REVISED REVISED