--- Page 0 ---
Precision Indoor Location and Tracking The Geospatial Location Accountability and Navigation Sys- tem for Emergency Responders (GLANSER) project is a part of the First Responder Technology Program within DHS S&T Directorate, Infrastructure Protection Disaster Management D i- vision (IDD). The GLANSER project satisfies the Incident Ma n- agement Integrated Projects Team’s high -priority technological need for personnel monitoring. The project builds on previous efforts from S&T concept exploration of Advance 3 -D Location System effort (RTAP BAA05 -01 EH4) and the 3 -D Visualization System to s how First Responders and Assets within Building Structures in Urban Areas for Situational Awareness effort (SBIR06.02- 005). The primary objectives of GLANSER are: •Improve the precision of locating first responders du r- ing an incident in complex environments and in non - GPS environments (i.e. subterranean structures, co l- lapsed buildings, sky -scrapers) •Provi de incident commanders the ability to accurately locate and track hundreds of personnel in real -time to rapidly and effectively re -deploy and save at -risk r e- sponders during an incident •Increase situational awareness of the incident by providing a 2D/3D view of the building superimposedwith the locations of the first responders and their statusthrough a 2 -way alarm/status communication feature . Operational concept for GLANSER This pr oject saves the lives of first responders by allowing the Incident Command Post to track, locate, and direct teams to res-cue at -risk/down personnel during emergency events. GLANSER increase s responder survivability by allowing for quicker egress of an incident using logged track information. In addition, the system will provide HSPD -8 compliance through adoption of appropriate first responder equipment standards that support nationwide interoperability and other capabilities co n- sistent with the national p reparedness goals. Key Contributions and Deliverables from Science and Technology GLANSER will provide position information, alarms, commun i- cations, and visual presentations to incident commanders. A d- vances in science and technology from this project inclu de de- veloping technology to increase 3- D positional accuracy to wit h- in 3 meters in non- GPS environments, increase communication range in complex indoor non -line-of-sight environments, provide device operational life up to 6 hours, and to decrease overall package weight to less than 2 lb. Project deliverables include: wearable 3 -D Locator Pack(s) for Responders; robust wireless mesh data network with 2 -way alarm/status communications; and 3 -D Visualization user interface product for responder’s geo - referenced location and tracks for the Incident Command Post. Customers, Users, Partnerships, and Stakeholders The primary customer for this project is the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). When delivered, the system sup-ports a multitude of State/Local E mergency Managers and First Responders, who are the ultimate end -users of the product. In addition, S&T is working to leverage existing efforts being done in the Department of Defense (DOD) and other agencies. Transitioning technology to the Emergency Responder The GLANSER system is being field -tested with numerous fire departments across the country to assess performance, reliability, ease of deployment and use, interoperability, and consistency with first responder procedures and equipment. Feedback from these field trials will be used to further improve the technology and packaging to make it feasible for commercialization. The initial strategy consists of FEMA endorsement of the product for use by end -users through Authorized Equipment List (AEL) and the Interagency Board (IAB) Standardized Equipment List (SEL). Also being discussed is procurement of the system through Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Pro gram (CEDAP) in FEMA. DHS Science and Technology Directorate Geospatial Location Accountability and Navigation System for Emergency Responders Know WHERE they are… To learn more about GLANSER , contact Jalal Mapar , Director RSD, at jalal.mapar @hq.dhs.gov 20-03- 2013