--- Page 0 ---
May 2, 2008 TRS Benefits Fuel Illinois’ Economy Pension system contributes $3.8 billion in economic activity SPRINGFIELD, IL-Benefits paid by the Teachers’ Retirement System of the State of Illinois (TRS) are pumping billions of dollars into the Illinois economy each year and have created tens of thousands of new jobs. That’s according to a study conducted by the $ 40 billion system, the largest of the five state pension systems in Illinois. The research shows TRS annual benefits paid to Illinois resident s generated $3.8 billion in economic activity, or slightly more than the value of Illinois agricultu re exports in 2006. The study also reveals that TRS bene fits have created over 30,000 jobs in Illinois and contributed over a billion dollars in additi onal earnings in the state. Further, TRS benefit payments added $2.1 billion to the state’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), or the total value of new goods and serv ices produced within Illinois’ borders. The value added by TRS benefits outpaced the amount contributed to the Illinois GDP by the agriculture, forestry, fishing, and hunting industries in 2006. “This study underscores the ripple effect TRS has on Illinois’ economy,” said Bob Lyons, a TRS Board Trustee elected by retired member s. “Every county in the state of Illinois is positively affected by TRS benefit payments,” Lyons said. In fact, the analysis shows that annual benefits received in each Il linois county averaged $22.8 million. The study is based on the $2.3 billion in annua l net retirement, disa bility, and survivor benefits paid by TRS to 71,103 Illinois recipients , who comprise 79 percent of those receiving TRS benefits. The research is based on annuali zed March 2008 benefits. The economic impact was calculated by using Illinois-specific mu ltipliers supplied by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the U.S. Department of Commerce. The multipliers measure both direct and indirect effect of payments made to TRS benefit recipients. The study also examines the number of TRS members living in each legislative district and the benefits paid to them. In the House, the number of members ranges from 49 in the 1st District to 6,976 in the 50th District. In addition, the highest level of TRS benefits paid in a House district is $54 million in the 49th, while the highest level in a Senate district is a $103 million in the 25th. (More)

--- Page 1 ---
TRS pg 2 This portion of the analysis was modeled on a study conducted earli er this year by the State Universities Retirement System. The goal of that section of the study is to provide current information to elected public officials about where TRS members reside and the level of TRS benefit payments in their districts. TRS provides retirement, disabi lity, and death benefits to t eachers and administrators at Illinois public elementary and secondary schools lo cated outside the city of Chicago. The System serves 344,432 members. -End-