--- Page 0 ---
Declassified WWII Era Documents In the FY2009 Financial Services Appropriations bill, Rep. Steve Israel requested the National Archives and Records Administration prepare a report analyzing a cache of recently declassified WWII era documents related to the U.S. government's involvement with Nazi and Japanese war criminals. The report was released in December 2010 and covers “evidence of war crimes and about wartime activities of war criminals; postwar documents on the search for war criminals; documents about the escape of war criminals; documents about the escape of war criminals; documents about the Allied protection or use of war criminals; and documents about the postwar activities of war criminals.” “Since 1999, federal agencies have declassified millions of pages of documents detailing the United States involvement with Nazi and Japanese war criminals. This information has shed light on a dark part of our history. It’s imperative that we continue to learn about our past in order to inform our decisions about the future. I’m grateful to the National Archives for their illuminating report,” said Rep. Israel. DOWNLOAD THE REPORT Intro-Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5-Conclusion The report covers the following topics: - New revelations from the documents that discuss the first questioning of Hitler’s personal secretary (p. 5-8); - New evidence about the background to German aggression against Poland (p. 8-9); - New materials about the search for Adolf Eichmann (p. 9-14); - New records supplementing our knowledge of Nazi aims in the Middle East, including the German intent to murder the Jewish population of Palestine with a special task force, and the relationship between Gamal Abdel Nasser and Germans during the war (p. 17-30). - More information on how certain U.S. intelligence officers often overlooked the significant role Gestapo officers played in the Holocaust (p. 35-49) - Discussion of approximately 1,200 newly released files relating to the penetration of German Communist activities and specifically to “Project Happiness,” the CIC’s codename for counterintelligence operations against the German Communist Party (p. 40-43). 1 / 2

--- Page 1 ---
Declassified WWII Era Documents 2 / 2