--- Page 0 ---
May 22, 2000 Dear Interested Citizen, There is a high level of coal bed methane (CBM) development occurring in the Powder River Basin as well as continued oil well drilling. Since August, 1999, the Buffalo BLM Field Office has received approximately 3,600 CBM and 24 oil well “Applications for Permits to Drill” (APD’s) on Federal mineral lands in the Powder River Basin. The majority of these applications are concentrated in the Wyodak EIS area which encompasses most of Campbell County and small portions of eastern Johnson and Sheridan Counties. Approximately 600 of these applications have been approved and are in various stages of development. Approximately 500 to 600 hundred additional CBM APD’s could be approved within the parameters of the most recent environmental impact analysis, the Wyodak EIS. Additional environmental analysis will be necessary to approve APD’s beyond the above level. Because of industry demand to continue development of federal oil and gas, the BLM is intending to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement to analyze the impacts of this action. Part of the analysis will be to determine if the Buffalo Resource Management Plan needs to be amended in order to enable development to continue. The amount of foreseeable development within Buffalo Field Office area is estimated to be approximately 30,000 CBM wells and 3,000 oil wells over the next ten years. These numbers include development on all ownerships. The analysis will encompass all of the Buffalo Area Field Office which is all of Campbell, Johnson, and Sheridan Counties and a small portion of northern Converse County. We would appreciate hearing any issues or concerns which you feel should be addressed in the analysis. They can be sent to us on the attached form. In addition to providing comments we have scheduled four meetings to discuss this analysis. The meetings are scheduled as follows: Holiday Inn, Sheridan, WY - June 6, 2000 at 7:00 PM Colonel Bozeman’s, Buffalo, WY - June 7, 2000 at 7:00 PM Holiday Inn, Gillette, WY - June 8, 2000 at 7:00 PM Best Western, Douglas, WY - June 12, 2000 at 7:00 PM The purpose of the meetings is to provide information to the public regarding the proposal so that you can provide informed comments regarding issues and concerns that should be addressed in the Environmental Impact Statement. We would like to receive any comments by June 30, 2000. If you have no comments but would like to receive a copy of the EIS to review, please return the enclosed form with your name and address. Please note that public comments submitted, including names, addresses and e-mail addresses will be available for public review and disclosure at the above address during business hours. You may request confidentiality. If you wish to withhold your name, address or e-mail address from public review or from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, you must state this plainly at the beginning of your written comment. Such requests will be honored to the extent allowable by law. Any submissions from organizations or businesses, and from individuals identifying themselves as representatives or officials of organizations or businesses, will be made available for public inspection in their entirety. If you have any questions, please contact Paul Beels or Richard Zander at (307) 684-1100. /S/ Dennis R. Stenger