--- Page 1 ---
BPR 10-1, 1964xxiv Bioengineering methods of wheelchair evaluation Edward PEizEr, Phd; donald wright, MEd; howard FrEibErgEr, aM the Veterans Administration undertakes the responsibility for evaluation of a variety of orthopedic devices such as braces, artificial limbs, wheelchairs, and pa - tient lifts. Its primary purpose is to provide an intelligent basis for selec- tion, procurement, and application of those devices which can be of great- est benefit to disabled veterans. This program also serves to guide the manufacturers of orthopedic devices along lines of development that are of particular interest to the Veter-ans Administration. The evaluation may therefore range from analysis of the design and materials to a full- scale biomechanical analysis in the laboratory, as well as a field study in several hospitals and clinics around the country. Laboratory studies are generally delegated to the VAPC Bio- engineering Laboratory, and field studies are usually conducted by the Prosthetic and Sensory Aids Service. Orthopedic braces and artificial limbs for both the upper and lower extremities have been the subject of evaluation programs for many years, and relatively useful methods and techniques have been evolved. The parameters which provide the most useful assessment of these devices are fairly well established. In addi - tion, there exists a body of basic data on normal human locomotion from which useful criteria for evaluating performance can be drawn. A somewhat different situation prevails in an approach to the evalu - ation of such items as lift aids and wheelchairs since there is available little basic information about their performance factors. Such stand - ards as do exist are descriptive in nature and relate primarily to dimen - sions and materials of the devices. A meaningful evaluation, however, de- pends on tests not only of hardware but also of the human factors that enter into efficient use. To provide a basis for an adequate assessment of orthopedic lift aids and wheelchairs, there has evolved in the Bioengineering Laboratory an evaluation program that takes into account the man-machine combi - nation that is both descriptive and functional. This program consists of specifically designed test procedures to provide information on: Analysis of mechanical design, adequacy of materials, and durability. Convenience and ease of operation. Patient acceptability in relation to appearance, utiliztion in the home, and the availability of other similar devices. Stability and safety. Force and energy requirements. A careful analysis of the design of an orthopedic device illustrates the extent to which the fundamen -tal idea or purpose has been trans - lated into appropriate mechanical features. A consideration of the me-chanical design in relation to all as-pects of the intended application fre- quently discloses serious limitations. In designing an orthopedic lift for extreme stability, for example, one developer failed to realize that the broad base of support was a grave handicap in confined areas where lifts are frequently used. Materials used in an apparatus strongly influ - ence comfort, safety, and durability. These features are assessed in the light of good design principles and on the basis of some standards which, although not entirely adequate, can be usefully applied. Durability is fre-quently determined by means of cy - cling tests. Convenience and ease of opera - tion are not only important consid - erations for the therapist who may use the devices, but they are espe-cially critical factors for the patients of limited strength and mobility who must operate them. Use tests are devised to assess these matters. In some cases, observation of several appropriately selected patients may suffice; in other cases, longer-term hospital use may provide the basis for judgment. To continue reading, please visit http://www.rehab.research.va.gov/jour/64/1/1/77.pdf

--- Page 2 ---
xxv Volume 50 • Number 2 • 2013commentary on Bioengineering of wheelchairs: the past 50 years rory a . CooPEr, Phd it was a pleasure to become re- acquainted with the landmark article “Bioengineering meth- ods of wheelchair evaluation” by Peizer et al. from the 1964 Bulletin of Prosthetics Research . As is to be expected, in some areas, there have been tremendous advances since the article was written and, in others, our understanding remains limited. Probably the three most profound aspects of the Peizer et al. article are that (1) much of the wheelchair en-gineering research at the time could be summarized in a single article, (2) the Department of Veterans Affairs Prosthetics Center was on the lead - ing edge of multidisciplinary team research, and (3) far fewer people were conducting wheelchair-related research. The breadth of the research described by Peizer et al. is remark - able for its time, but the depth of the knowledge was much less than we know today. Most would agree that the greatest changes that have taken place over the past 50 years are in the areas of ability to image the upper limbs; bio - mechanics (kinematics, especially kinetics) of wheelchair propulsion and transfers; design of wheelchairs from the materials, electronics, soft-ware, and fabrication to the style; and human-to-wheelchair interfaces for both manual and power chairs. The most profound difference is that the wheelchairs of today are vastly superior to the wheelchairs of 50 years ago. At the time of publica - tion of Peizer et al.’s article, there was one dominant manufacturer and very few options to include sizes. People could literally memorize the entire catalog. Today, there are more than 100 companies and thousands of models with literally hundreds of thousands of options. Manual wheelchairs are much lighter, efficient, ergonomic, and so-cially acceptable. A growing number of clinicians understand the need for matching the design and configura - tion closely to the needs and abilities of the user. Electric powered wheel-chairs (EPWs) share very little in com-mon with their ancestors of 50 years ago. EPWs today have computer- operated interfaces and power con - trols that were unthinkable at that time. Further, the EPW seat and chas-sis systems have been separated to be more like a car than a “wheeled chair.” EPW chassis often have inde - pendent suspension, and seats can range from simple “captain chairs” to fully articulated with power eleva - tion, leg-rest angle, tilt, and recline. Fifty years ago, sports wheelchairs (e.g., racing, rugby, basketball, and hand-cycling) did not exist. Athletes competed in essentially the same chairs that they used everyday. Now, nearly every adaptive sport uses cus - tom-designed wheelchairs and ath-letic performances are astoundingly better than 50 years ago. People who use wheelchairs are healthier and live longer because science has led to better understanding of the benefits of exercise, adaptive sports and recreation, nutrition, smoking cessation, upper-limb preservation, pressure ulcer prevention, and skills training. A number of barriers still remain. Although international wheelchair standards exist, they are seldom used in decision making or uniformly applied, leading to high variability in the quality, efficacy, and safety of wheelchairs. Reimbursement poli - cies still vary widely, and the majority of insurers still severely limit access to appropriate quality and function - ing wheelchairs. There remain mil - lions of people without access to wheelchairs or the ability to operate current wheelchairs. There remains much to be learned about designing optimal wheelchairs, preventing sec- ondary conditions, matching wheel-chairs to user needs, evaluating the interaction of wheelchairs with the built environment, and infusing that knowledge into user and clinical communities. http://dx.doi.org/10.1682/JRRD.2013.02.0031