--- Page 0 ---
Hinchey Announces $3.6 Million in Economic Recovery Funding For Local Housing Authorities Tuesday, 24 March 2009 19:00 Washington, DC - Congressman Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) today announced that the Binghamton, Ithaca, Kingston, Newburgh, Poughkeepsie, Monticello, and Woodridge Housing Authorities will receive a total of $1.65 million in federal funds from the recently-approved economic recovery bill. The funds, which Hinchey voted for, will be used to pay for a variety of public housing projects that have been delayed due to a lack of funding. The Kingston Housing Authority will receive $281,757 from the economic recovery package; the Housing Authority of Newburgh will receive $224,341; the Binghamton Housing Authority will receive $1,308,424; the Ithaca Housing Authority will receive $649,230; the Poughkeepsie Housing Authority will receive $869,736; the Monticello Housing Authority will receive $193,712; and the Woodridge Housing Authority will receive $81,855. "These federal funds will help make improvements to local public housing units that have been needed for some time, but have lacked the necessary federal funding," Hinchey said. "This economic recovery funding nearly doubles the amount of federal support given to local housing authorities on an annual basis. These improvements and modernizations will help improve the lives of the residents and the quality of public housing abroad." Allocated through an established formula, this funding will allow local housing agencies to address long-standing improvement needs to public housing units. It will also help to create jobs in the area and increase energy efficiency within public housing units. HUD's Capital Fund Program provides annual funding to public housing authorities to develop, finance, and modernize the public housing in their communities. This funding can also be used to make large-scale improvements such as new roofs; and for the replacement of plumbing and electrical systems to more energy efficient standards. In addition to the funds announced today, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will soon make an additional $1 billion available nationwide through a competitive grant process. 1 / 1