--- Page 0 ---
Dr. Burgess Weekly Video Address November 22, 201 3 “My Health Care Solutions ” Hello, this is your c ongressman, Michael Burgess. I’ve been a doctor for over 25 years , and I know that our health care system needs improvements. But before can we talk reform, Americans need the opportunity to make their own health care decisions, and the president’s patched -up health c are law will not give Americans the health care they want – and it does come at the expense of their freedom. The Affordable Care Act was carel essly drafted behind closed doors. It included secret deals, loopholes, special interests, drafting errors, and allowed all federal agencies to be created without Congressional knowledge or oversight. The bottom line is the Affordable Care Act was not mean ingful reform. There is no way that this law will improve your health or your health care or reduce costs. In fact it’s going to cost you plenty. With health care on so many people’s minds, I wanted t o share with you a few of my ideas for what we could do in health care . If we really want to help with cost, we need a series of changes involving specific problems which include the inequities in the tax code. We should give Americans the ability to purchase health insurance across state lines to increase competition. Also people should be allowed to use their Health Savings Acco unt to offset these very high deductibles we’re seeing . For better health care coverage, we should encourage and expand state solutions for people with pre-existing conditions. Some medical liability reform would also be nice. All of this will maintain a patient centered approach to health care and represent the meaningful type of reform that people have been seeking. If you are interested in learning more about my health care idea s, please visit my health caucus website at health.burgess.house.gov. There you will be able to learn more about solutions and prescriptions for health care reform. Thank you for taking the time to listen. Ma y God bless you and your family, may you stay in good health, a nd as always, may God bless Texas.