--- Page 0 ---
My OLD address was: ("In care of" other person, if any) (Number, Street, Apartment) (City, State and ZIPCode) (Country, if other than U.S.)My NEW address is: ("In care of" other person, if any) (Number, Street, Apartment) (City, State and ZIPCode) (Country,if other than U.S.) (New Telephone Number)Name: Alien Number: AAlien's Change of Address Form/ Immigration CourtU.S. Department of Justice Executive Office for Immigration Review Immigration Court You are required to notify the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) of any change of address and any change of telephone number within five (5) days of moving or changing your address or phone number. You will receive notification as to the time, date, andplace of hearing or other official correspondence only at the address which you provide. Failure to appearat any hearing before an Immigration Judge, when notice of that hearing orotherofficial correspondence wasserved on you orsent to the address you provided, may result in one ormore of the following actions: ●If you are not already detained, you may be taken into custody by the DHS and held for further action; and If you are in removalproceedings : Your hearing may be held in your absence under Section 240 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA),and an order of removal may be entered against you. Furthermore, you may become ineligible for the followingforms of relief from removal for a period of 10 years after the date of the entry of the final order: Voluntary Departure as provided for in Section 240B of the INA; Cancellation of Removal as provided for in Section 240Aof the INA; Adjustment of Status or Change of Status as provided for in Section(s) 245, 248, or 249 of the INA. If you are in deportation proceedings : Your hearing may be held in your absence under Section 242B of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA)(1995), and an order of deportation may be entered against you. Furthermore, you may become ineligible for the followingforms of relief from deportation for a period of 5 years after the date of the entry of the final order: Voluntary Departure as provided for in Section 242(b) of the INA (1995); Suspension of Deportation or Vol- untary Departure as provided for in Section 244 of the INA (1995); Adjustment of Status or Change of Status as provided for in Section(s) 245, 248, or 249 of the INA(1995).If you are in exclusion proceedings : Your application for admission to the United States may be considered withdrawn, and your hearing may beheld in your absence and an order of exclusion and deportation entered against you. PROOFOFSERVICE (You Must Complete This) I mailed or delivered a copy of this Change of Address Form on to the Assistant Chief Counsel for the DHS (U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement-ICE) at .✍SIGNHERE ➜➜ Signature DateX ✍SIGNHERE ➜➜ SignatureX(Name) (Date) (Number and Street, City, State, Zip Code) Form EOIR - 33/IC Revised 8/06

--- Page 1 ---
Fold Here Fold HereMAILING INSTRUCTIONS 1) Fold the page at the dotted lines marked "Fold Here" so that the address is visible. (IMPORTANT: Make sure the address section is visible after folds are made.) 2) Secure the folded form by stapling along the open end marked "Fasten Here." 3) Place appropriate postage stamp in the area marked "Place Stamp Here." 4) Write in your return address in the area marked "PUT YOUR ADDRESS HERE." 5) Mail the form. U.S. Depar tment of Justice Immigration Court 1900 E. Whatley Road Oakdale, Louisiana 71463Place Stamp Here Fasten HereUnder the Paperwork Reduction Act, a person is not required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control number. We try to create forms and instructions that are accurate, can be easily understood, and which impose the least possible burden on you to provide us with information. The estimated average time to complete this form is three (3) minutes. If you have comments regarding the accuracy of this estimate, or suggestions for making this form simpler, you can write to the Executive Office for Immigration Review, Office of the General Counsel, 5107 Leesburg Pike, Suite 2600, Falls Church, Virginia 22041 . PUTYOUR ADDRESS HERE Form EOIR - 33/IC Revised 8/06