--- Page 0 ---
CRM No4—1998 39The underground railroad was per- haps the most dramatic pr otest action against slaver y in United States history . It was a clandestine operation that began during the colonial period, later became par t of or ganized abolitionist activity in the 19th centur y, and r eached its peak in the period 1830-1865. The stor y of the underground railroad is one of individual sacrifice and her oism of enslaved people to r each freedom from bondage. In passing Public Law 101-628 in 1990, Congress dir ected the National Park Ser vice “to study the underground railroad, its routes, and operations in order to preserve and interpret this aspect of American histor y.” This legislation fur ther requir ed that the study be completed in coopera - tion with an advisor y committee representing exper ts in historic pr eservation, African-American history , United States histor y, and members of the general public with special inter est and experience in the underground railroad. Congress further requir ed that escape r outes to Mexico as well as Canada be consider ed in the study. The Washington Of fice of the National Park Ser vice (NPS) r equested that the Denver Ser vice Center undertake this pr oject in consultation with all involved NPS r egions. Over the next several years, this advisor y committee worked with the NPS plan - ning team on gathering data, public involvement, and developing a range of alter natives. The number of possible sites and str uctures associated with the under ground railroad story is immense. The under ground railroad is every route the enslaved took, or attempted to take, to fr eedom. It is a vast network of paths and r oads, through swamps and over mountains, along and acr oss rivers and even by sea, that cannot be documented with pr ecision. The Under ground Railroad Special Resour ce Study involved consultation with 34 states, two territories, hundreds of interested indi- viduals and organizations around the country, as well as Canada and the Caribbean. The study con - sidered 380 suggestions about potential sites of sig - nificance to the under ground railroad story. Since the study was finished additional sites have been identified. Additional r esear ch has identified 42 sites as having the highest potential to meet estab -lished National Historic Landmark criteria for national significance. The NPS is completing National Register of Historic Places for ms and sub- mitting these for designation as National Historic Landmarks. Given the national significance of the stor y, the need for long-ter m preservation of resources, the public enjoyment potential, and the cur rent amount of public ownership, the under ground rail- road stor y could become an example of the “new wave” national park unit—a cooperative or par tner- ship park. Cooperative or par tnership efforts, if suc- cessful, should r educe NPS staffing and develop- ment requir ements and operating costs. Through working with the URAC, the public, and NPS r egions and parks, five alter native con- cepts wer e developed for pr eserving, commemorat - ing, and interpreting resour ces associated with the underground railr oad. All of these concepts wer e intended to enhance public understanding and appreciation of the under ground railroad and to preser ve its many impor tant resources. Each con- cept is briefly described below: Concept A. At a newly established commem - orative, interpr etive, educational, and r esearch cen- ter, visitors would come to understand the whole story of the underground railr oad and its signifi - cance in their ar ea or r egion and in United States history. Resources r elated to the under ground rail- road would be fully inventoried and documented. Concept B. An appr eciation of the under - ground railr oad would be accomplished by impr ov- ing existing interpr etive pr ograms and by imple - menting new pr ograms that would pr ovide visitors with a complete, in-depth understanding of the underground railr oad while focusing on local aspects of the stor y of the site. Concept C . Visitors would have an oppor tu- nity to encounter a concentration of under ground railroad resources over a large geographic area (up to several hundr ed miles). These ar eas could include National Historic Landmarks and existing NPS units associated with the under ground rail- road story , documented escape r outes used by enslaved Americans, str uctur es and sites associated with personalities and aspects of the under ground railroad story, and oppor tunities to illustrate theJohn C .Paige NPS Study to Pr eserve and Interpr et the UGRR

--- Page 1 ---
40 CRM No4—1998international connection to the under ground rail- road. Concept D. The history , meaning, signifi - cance, and legacy of the under ground railroad would be remembered thr ough a single commemo - rative monument. This monument would honor those people who risked or lost their lives to escape the oppression of slavery and reach freedom on the underground railr oad and those who assisted them. Concept E. Visitors would have an oppor tu- nity to travel along trail systems that evoke the per - ilous experience encounter ed by those who sought freedom thr ough escape on the under ground rail- road. A variety of natural r esour ces (e.g., swamps, forests, and rivers) and cultural r esources e.g., underground railr oad stations, homes of significant individuals, and ar cheological sites) along these trail systems would help to bring this stor y alive. A trail or trails would be designated thr ough the National T rail System Act of 1968, as amended. One option in implementing concept E would be to establish a gover nment-chartered commission or foundation to work towar d establishment of the trail(s). The study also included an envir onmental assessment and a r equir ed no-action alter native. On August 11, 1995, the Under ground Railroad Advisor y Committee made the following r ecommen- dations: • That the Congress authorize a national Underground Railroad Commission and fund a national initiative to support projects focusing on activities associated with the underground railroad. • That all alternatives identified as concepts A-E in the Underground Railroad Special Resource Study be pursued with equal vigor and simul- taneously as appropriate. • That public and private sector (corporate, uni- versity, organizational) partnerships be encour- aged and pursued wherever possible and appropriate to achieve the varying goals of the underground railroad project. • That an interpretive handbook on the under- ground railroad be researched, written, and published, and that the skills of non-NPS experts be used wherever possible to ensure historical accuracy and the broadest range of interpretation (recently published). • That the mandate of the current Underground Railroad Advisory Committee be extended through congressional funding and NPS imple- mentation stages to ensure project continuity and to maintain project oversight. • That, regardless of the existence of other con- gressional mandates or funding, the National Park Service continue and accelerate its efforts to document and interpret the undergroundrailroad in all parks, memorials, and trails within its jurisdiction. • That the National Capital Regional Office of the National Park Service be authorized to coordinate underground railroad activities throughout the National Park Service. In addition, the study contained findings which included the following: • The underground railroad story is nationally significant. • A few elements of the story are represented in existing NPS units and other sites, but many important resources are not adequately repre- sented and protected. • Many sites remain that meet established crite- ria for designation as National Historic Landmarks. • Many sites are in imminent danger of being lost or destroyed. • There is a tremendous amount of interest in the subject, but little organized coordination and communication among interested individ- uals and organizations. • Some sites have very high potential for preser- vation and visitor use. • No single site or route completely reflects and characterizes the underground railroad. The story and resources involve networks and regions rather than individual sites and trails. • A variety of partnership approaches would be most appropriate for the protection and inter- pretation of the underground railroad. These partnerships could include the federal, state, and local governments along with a variety of private sector involvement. The study was completed and submitted to Congress on Februar y 7, 1996. A series of bills have been offer ed which would implement some of the study’s alter natives, but Congr ess has not taken final action on any of these bills. The NPS, thr ough interpr etive media and pr ograms, continues to develop new ways to pr esent the underground rail- road stor y to the public. These pr ograms include the development of an interpr etive handbook which would not only interpr et the underground railroad, but also ser ve as a guide. In addition, the NPS is working with Parks Canada to develop a mor e com- prehensive interpr etation of sites associated with the underground railr oad. The NPS continues to work towar d nominating under ground railroad sites and structur es as National Historical Landmarks. Meanwhile, or ganizations and individuals outside the NPS continue to work towar d the recognition of the impor tance of the under ground railroad to American history. _______________ John C. Paige is a cultural resource specialist for the Resource Planning Division of the NPS Denver Service Center.