--- Page 0 ---
SUCCESS STOR Y WEST VIRGINIA D STRICT OFF CE I I Contact: Rick Haney (304) 623-5631 Email: Richard.haney@sba.gov Internet: www.sba.g ov/wv Entrepreneurial Roots Run Deep for Young WV Businessman FAIRMONT - Entrepre neurship is a f amiliar word to Chira g Patel. He was just 5 y ears old wh en his paren ts, Pravin and Tara, re located to W est Virginia f rom New Jersey to open the Heldr eth Motel and Restauran t in Kingwood. That sm all business ventur e has expanded to eight m otels st retched over three states. His grandparents operated sm all businesses in Tanzania (Africa) and the Fiji Islands m ore than 50 years ago. Growing up the son and grandson of sm all business owners , and experiencing firsthand the rewards and benefits of small business ownership, Patel was destined to follow the sam e path. Patel is currently President and Chief Executive Offi cer of DN American, an inform ation technology company certified in the U.S. S mall Busine ss Adm inistration’s 8(a) Business De velopm ent and Sm all Disadvantaged Business program s. DN Am erican is located at the W est Virginia High Technology Pa rk in Fairmont, W .Va. During the short course of his entrep reneurial career, he has m anaged se veral sm all business concerns. “I actua lly star ted m y first business, FI TNETICS, LLC, a fitness cente r, soon after I graduated from W est Vir ginia University in 1998,” said Patel. “I m ajored in busine ss managem ent and couldn’t wait to graduate and start my own business.” Asked why he chose a fitness center as his first business vent ure Patel r eplies, “ Fitness had always been a hobby. If I could found the right location, I knew I could start a successful fitness fac ility. The Morgantown area was saturated with f itness c enters at the time and Fa irmont seem ed like the logica l loca tion, espec ially the area around the I-79 high-tech corridor.” Soon after opening FITNETICS he met and m arried his wife, Binita, who joined him in the day-to-day operations of the center. Patel knew about the U.S. Sm all Business Adm inistration’s 8(a) Business Developm ent Program from his internships during college at DN Am erican, then owned by cousin Nash Patel. “I saw how the governm ent contracting program helped DN Am erican grow and as a result, I knew that’s where I wanted to go,” added Patel. The SBA is a federal g overnm ent agency that h elps m aintain and strengthen the nation’s economy by aiding, counseling, assis ting an d protecting the interes ts of sm all business and by helpin g fam ilies and busines ses recover from national disasters. The 8(a) program is an essential in strum ent for helping socially and econom ically disadvantaged entrepreneurs gain access to the econom ic mainstream of American society. T he SBA has helped thousands of aspiring entrepreneurs over the years to gain a foothold in governm ent contracting. Participation is divided into two phases over nine year s: a four-year developm ental stage and a five-year tra nsition al stage. Participan ts can receiv e sole-sou rce contracts, up to a ceiling of $3 m illion fo r goods and services and $5 million for m anufacturing. W hile SBA helps 8(a) firm s build their com petitive a nd institu tional know-how, the agency also encourage s them to participate in co mpetitiv e acquisitions.

--- Page 1 ---
After certification in the 8(a) program, Patel turned the operations of FITNETICS over to his wife and concentrated his efforts on a new information tec hnology business, Innovative Ma nagement and Technology Systems (IMTS). “I began marketing IMTS as an IT services company with the assistance from Nash at DN American,” said Patel. “That even tually led to a formal mentor-protégé agreement through the SBA’s 8(a) program. The agreement helped my business grow from one employee to 20 over the course of two years and led to two subcontracts through DN American with th e Federal Bureau of Investigations and National Aeronautics and Space Administration.” More contracts soon followed, including their first prim e contract with NASA’s IV&V facility in Fairmont. “We decided to sell the fitness facility and concentrat e our efforts on growing IMTS,” adds Patel. “SBA’s mentor-protégé program enabled me to grow my compa ny by marketing and providing services to the federal government.” His entrepreneurial efforts drew the attention of Vanessa Schoetz, affiliated services manager at the West Virginia High Technology Foundation, who nominated him as SBA’s 2005 Young Entrepre neur of the Year for West Virginia; he won. “Receiving the Young Entrepreneur award is a very important milestone in my early career,” Patel said. “I’m very grateful for the suppor t I’ve received, especially from my colleagues at DN American, the SBA, the WVHTF, an d most importantly, my family.” Patel is not slowing down; in fact, he recently acquired DN American. “I will continue to operate under the DN American name,” he said. “I want to build on the succe ssful legacy that has spanned the past 15 years.” That company, which is comprised of 150 employees in six states, continues to gr ow. “Our vision is to continue expanding into other regi ons of the country,” he adds. Although Patel has demonstrated the potenti al to grow, he does not plan to m ove the company out of the state. “West Virginia is a great place to live and raise a fam ily,” states Patel. “We ha ve great employees at DN American. They are supportive, really enjoy their work, and are like fam ily. I am not even thinking about moving the company, just to grow it.” For more information on the SBA and the resources available to assist small business, contact the West Virginia District Office at 800-767-8052 extension 8 or by email at wvinfo@sba.gov , or visit thei r web site at www.sba.gov/wv .