--- Page 0 ---
Statement of Senator Feinstein on Nom ination of John R. Bolton as UN Am bassador April 11, 2005 Washington, DC – Following is the statemen t of U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) on the nomination of John R. Bolton to be the U nited States Ambassador to the United Nations: “I will vote against con firming John Bolton as the United States Amb assador to the United Nations, if his n omination c omes to the Senate floo r for a vote. Simply put, John Bolton is th e wrong man for w hat is an impo rtant and critical position at the w rong time. In fact, 67 former U.S. diplomats, State Depa rtment officials or of ficials of the A rms Control and Disarma ment Agency have urged the U.S. Senate to reject Mr. Bolton’s nomination citing his “ exceptiona l record of o pposition to efforts to enhance U.S. security through arms control.” Mr. Bolton’s contempt for the United Nati ons is w ell known. But his contempt for diplomacy, particularly w ith re gard to effor ts to reach ar ms control agreemen ts, show s what a truly inap propriate choice he is for this job. Mr. Bolton has opposed the ratification of the Comprehensive Test Ba n Treaty. He has w orked to block ag reemen ts to curb the pr oliferation of small arms and ligh t weapons. He has opposed U.S. partic ipation in the Ot tawa Landmine Treaty. He has led the effor t to withdraw the U.S. from negotiations to formul ate a verification syst em for the Biologica l Weapons Convention. He has urge d U.S. w ithdraw al from the Anti- Ballist ic Missile Tr eaty. He has expressed s kepticism about whether U.N. should have a role in peacekeeping efforts. And, he has even questioned w hether the U.S is obligated to pay its U.N. dues. At a time w hen the U.S. is seeking to stren gthen alliances around the w orld to fight the War on Terror, stop th e proliferation of w eapons of mass destruction, tackle the HIV/AIDS pandemic and bring political stability and econo mic pros perity to th e developin g world, John Bolton is clearly the w rong c hoice to become U.S. Ambassador to the U.N.” ###