--- Page 0 ---
17821 CFR Ch. III (4±1±98 Edition) §1403.23 (2) Reasonable fees or profit to cost- type contractors but not any fee or profit (or other increment above allow- able costs) to the grantee or sub- grantee. (b) Applicable cost principles. For each kind of organization, there is a set of Federal principles for determining al- lowable costs. Allowable costs will be determined in accordance with the cost principles applicable to the organiza- tion incurring the costs. The following chart lists the kinds of organizations and the applicable cost principles. For the costs of aÐ Use the principles inÐ State, local or Indian tribal government .OMB Circular A±87. Private nonprofit organization other than (1) institution of higher education, (2) hos- pital, or (3) organization named in OMB Circular A± 122 as not subject to that circular.OMB Circular A±122. Educational institutions ..........OMB Circular A±21. For-profit organizations other than a hospital and an or- ganization named in OMB Circular A±122 as not sub- ject to that circular .48 CFR part 31. Contract Cost Principles and Proce- dures, or uniform cost ac- counting standards that comply with cost principles acceptable to the Federal agency. §1403.23 Period of availability of funds. (a) General . Where a funding period is specified, a grantee may charge to the award only costs resulting from obliga- tions of the funding period unless car- ryover of unobligated balances is per- mitted, in which case the carryover balances may be charged for costs re- sulting from obligations of the subse- quent funding period. (b) Liquidation of obligations . A grant- ee must liquidate all obligations in- curred under the award not later than 90 days after the end of the funding pe- riod (or as specified in a program regu- lation) to coincide with the submission of the annual Financial Status Report (SF±269). The Federal agency may ex- tend this deadline at the request of the grantee. §1403.24 Matching or cost sharing. (a) Basic rule: Costs and contributions acceptable . With the qualifications and exceptions listed in paragraph (b) of this section, a matching or cost shar-ing requirement may be satisfied by ei- ther or both of the following: (1) Allowable costs incurred by the grantee, subgrantee or a cost-type con- tractor under the assistance agree- ment. This includes allowable costs borne by non-Federal grants or by oth- ers cash donations from non-Federal third parties. (2) The value of third party in-kind contributions applicable to the period to which the cost sharing or matching requirements applies. (b) Qualifications and exceptions Ð(1) Costs borne by other Federal grant agree- ments. Except as provided by Federal statute, a cost sharing or matching re- quirement may not be met by costs borne by another Federal grant. This prohibition does not apply to income earned by a grantee or subgrantee from a contract awarded under another Fed- eral grant. (2) General revenue sharing . For the purpose of this section, general revenue sharing funds distributed under 31 U.S.C. 6702 are not considered Federal grant funds. (3) Cost or contributions counted to- wards other Federal cost-sharing require- ments. Neither costs nor the values of third party in-kind contributions may count towards satisfying a cost sharing or matching requirement of a grant agreement if they have been or will be counted towards satisfying a cost shar- ing or matching requirement of an- other Federal grant agreement, a Fed- eral procurement contract, or any other award of Federal funds. (4) Costs financed by program income. Costs financed by program income, as defined in § 1403.25, shall not count to- wards satisfying a cost sharing or matching requirement unless they are expressly permitted in the terms of the assistant agreement. (This use of gen- eral program income is described in §1403.25(g).) (5) Services or property financed by in- come earned by contractors. Contractors under a grant may earn income from the activities carried out under the contract in addition to the amounts earned from the party awarding the contract. No costs of services or prop- erty supported by this income may count toward satisfying cost sharing or matching requirement unless other VerDate 09<APR>98 15:24 Apr 16, 1998 Jkt 179074 PO 00000 Frm 00174 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\179074.TXT 179074-3