--- Page 0 ---
March 25, 2008 - Local IRS Events to Push Stimulus Tax Rebates WASHINGTON, D.C. - On Saturday, March 29, the IRS will join forces with local groups at two locations to host &quot;Super Saturday&quot; events aimed at reaching individuals eligible for the economic stimulus tax rebate but who would not normally file federal income tax returns. - The Monterey County Department of Social and Employment Services will team up with Rippling River in Carmel Valley to hold an event at 52 East Carmel Valley Road from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. - The IRS office in Salinas will host an event at their office, 55 Plaza Circle, from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. The events are part of a nationwide campaign by the IRS and hundreds of partner organizations. The events will help individuals prepare the simple Form 1040A for those filing a return solely to receive a stimulus payment. &quot;Passing the economic stimulus package was only the first step. Now we have to make sure that millions of Americans who wouldn't normally file a tax return won't miss out on these rebates,&quot; said Congressman Sam Farr (D-Carmel), who voted in January for legislation authorizing the rebates. Millions of Americans who do not pay federal income taxes may be eligible for a $300 payment ($600 for married couples) if they have at least $3,000 in qualifying income, defined as any combination of earned income such as wages, nontaxable combat pay and certain benefits from Social Security, Veterans Affairs and Railroad Retirement. Many families will also be eligible for $300 for each qualifying child younger than 17. &quot;We don't want any Americans to miss out on their economic stimulus payment,&quot; said IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman. &quot;For millions of Americans, filing a tax return is not routine. Their income is either too low or not taxable. But this year, filing a 2007 tax return is the only way to receive an economic stimulus payment.&quot; The IRS this week is mailing 20.5 million Social Security and Veterans Affairs recipients a Package 1040A-3 that contains all the information they need to file a return immediately. Railroad Retirement recipients, low-income individuals and military personnel with nontaxable 1 / 2

--- Page 1 ---
March 25, 2008 - Local IRS Events to Push Stimulus Tax Rebates combat pay also can use the package if they need to file solely to receive the payment. Starting in May, the IRS will issue economic stimulus payments of up to $600 ($1,200 for married couples) plus additional payments of $300 for each for qualifying child. Most Americans don't need to do anything more than file their tax returns as they normally do. The maximum payments will begin to phase out at $75,000 in adjusted gross income ($150,000 for married couples). # # # 2 / 2