--- Page 0 ---
Approved by the South Carolina Budget and Control Board June 17, 2008 Atlantic Compact Regional Waste Alternative Rate Schedule for Fiscal Year 2009 Effective July 1, 2008 Option A Pricing (applicable to Generators who do not elect Option B Pricing) For all waste up to 100 cubic feet, other than Irradiated Hardware, Large Components, and Sealed Sources (applicable waste): Class A waste: $297 per cubic foot Class B waste: $415 per cubic foot Class C waste: $445 per cubic foot Atlantic Compact Surcharge: $6.00 per cubic foot For all applicable waste in excess of 100 cubic feet: Use Maximum Uniform Rate Schedule For Irradiated Hardware, Large Components, and Sealed Sources: Use Maximum Uniform Rate Schedule Option B Pricing (at Generator’s election*) For all applicable waste that does not exceed by 20% the Volume Projection provided by the Generator: Class A waste: $297 per cubic foot Class B waste: $415 per cubic foot Class C waste: $445 per cubic foot Atlantic Compact surcharge: $6.00 per cubic foot For any applicable waste that exceeds the Volume Projection by 20%: Use Maximum Uniform Rate Schedule. If actual volume received for disposal is less th an the Volume Projection: $297 per cubic foot for the difference between the projection and the actual volume received. Irradiated Hardware and High Dose Shipments (See Note B): Pricing will be calculated on a case-by-case basis in an amount sufficient to cover all additional operating costs incurred by the site operator to dispose of the waste. Steam Generators and Other La rge Components (See Note C): Pricing will be calculated on a case-by-case basis in an amount sufficient to cover all additional operating costs incurred by the site operator to dispose of the waste. Sealed sources: Not eligible for Option B pricing. Use Maximum Uniform Rate Schedule. *A generator may elect Option B pricing if they meet the following criteria: • Provide the disposal site operator by July 1, 2008 a firm projection of the volume of applicable waste to be shipped for disposal during the fiscal year, excluding irradiated hardware, large components, and any waste registered in Fiscal Years 2007 and 2008 under the “Volume Hold” program. • Enter into a binding agreement with the disposal site operator by July 1, 2008 , that describes the commitments that the disposal site operator and the Generator have agreed to that will address any shortfall in operating revenues and

--- Page 1 ---
Approved by the South Carolina Budget and Control Board June 17, 2008 obligations. These commitments may include supplemental fees and charges that are in addition to the rates described herein, if both the disposal site operator and the generator agree to such charges and if such charges are necessary in order to cover all operating costs and obligations. The binding commitments shall preclude the need [as described in 48-46-40(D)(2), South Carolina Code of Laws] to withdraw funds from the Barnwell Extended Care Fund to cover shortfalls in the event that overall disposal revenues are not adequate to cover operating costs and obligations. To be eligible for Option B pricing, a waste generator must submit a copy of such binding agreement to the South Carolina Energy Office not later than close of business, July 1, 2008 . NOTES: A. Surcharges for the extended care fund and decommissioning trust fund are included in the disposal rates . B. Irradiated hardware and high dose shipments: As a general rule, case-by-case billing as irradiated hardware pertains to shipments of except ionally high activity that require clearing of the site and special off-loading into a slit trench . These generally include CNS3-55, TN-RAM, and other horizontally offloaded cask shipments. In addition to items of irradiated hardware, if a shipment requires substantial sp ecial handling, due to exceptionally high package surface doses, additional surcharges may be authorized by Board staff in an amount that will reimburse the site operator for costs that have not been budgeted. C. Large components: Pricing will be calculated on a case-by-case basis in an amount sufficient to cover all additional operating costs incurred by the site operator to dispose of the waste. Large components include steam generators, reactor pressure vessels, reactor coolant pumps, or items that require construction of special-sized disp osal vaults. Large components also include items that may fit into the standard sized vault, but fi t so inefficiently due to their shape and geometry that it is less costly to build a specially sized vault. Because the disposal of large components is rare and is not considered as a factor in planning and budgeting for site operations, a reasonable suppl emental service fee may be authorized by Board staff to cover the disposal site operat or’s costs for planning, consultation, feasibility studies, cost estimating, regulatory consultati on, and other necessary costs that have not been budgeted and accounted for as operating costs for the fiscal year. This supplemental service fee is applicable whether or not the generator ultimately commits to disposal of the large component(s), and whether or not the waste is eventually disposed at the Barnwell site. Because the operating costs for disposal of lar ge components may be significantly affected by the number of such components and the schedule for del ivery, generators are strongly encouraged to coordinate their plans for shipment of large com ponents to Barnwell in order to reduce unit costs through better economies of scale. Early in project planning, shippers are encouraged to consult with the disposal site operator on designs and configurations that may reduce handling and offloading costs at the disposal site. D. Transport vehicles with additional shielding features may be subject to an additional handling fee which will be provided upon request. E. In certain circumstances, the disposal site operator may assess additional charges for necessary services that are not part of and are additional to disposal rates established by the State of South Carolina. These include decontamination servic es and special services as described in the Barnwell Site Disposal Criteria. F. The disposal site operator has established the following policies and procedures which are provided herein for informational purposes: i. Terms of payment are net 30 days upon pres entation of invoices. A per-month service charge of one and one-half percent (1½%) shall be levied on accounts not paid within thirty (30) days. ii. Company purchase orders or a written lette r of authorization and substance acceptable to CNS shall be received before receipt of radioactive waste material at the Barnwell Site and shall refer to CNS Radioactive Material License, the Barnwell Site Disposal Criteria and subsequent changes thereto. iii. All shipments shall receive a CNS shipment identification number and conform to the Prior Notification Plan.